A_plus
Pronounced A plus, a certification developed by the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) to validate vendor-neutral skills for entry-level computer technicians. Holders of the A+ certification have been trained in installing, repairing, troubleshooting, maintaining, customizing and operating PCs. There are two different exams one must take in order to receive A+ certification: core competency -- certifies in general knowledge of PCs, including installation and configuration, hardware and software upgrading, safety procedures, diagnostics, maintenance and repair. specialized training certifies in all current versions of the Windows operating system. 

A_Law
The ITU standard for analog to digital audio data conversion using PCM coding and companding. The A-Law technique is used throughout Europe and has a more constant "signal-to-quantizing" noise ratio than its North American counterpart, u-Law.

A_List_blogger
A term used to describe a group of elite bloggers who post daily on their blogs and receive a huge number of links back to the blog they write. The defining element of an A-List blogger is the size of the blog's readership (e.g. its traffic). See "The History of Blogging" in the  Quick Reference section of Webopedia. 

A_B_split
In email marketing, A/B split is a marketing test method where an e-mail subscriber list is split into two groups; every other name in the list is sent one e-mail message and vice versa. The open, response and conversion rates to each message are tracked.
A/B split testing is used outside of email marketing in the wider category of online marketing. For example, you might show website visitors different versions of the same pages to see what works best. When done correctly, A/B can help you increase your conversion rates, address problem pages and challenge your assumptions about how to optimize your site.
Top 5 A/B Split Testing Related Questions:
1) What is email marketing? 2) What is behavioral email marketing? 3) What is conversion marketing? 4) What is bounce rate? 5) What is open rate?

A_UX
Pronounced ox, Apple's version of UNIX, which runs on some versions of the Macintosh. 

A3
A3 is a text message abbreviation meaning anytime, anywhere, anyplace. A3 is commonly used in newsgroups, chat rooms, instant messaging,  text messaging, SMS, e-mail and other real time text-based online communications.
See also "Text Messaging Abbreviations" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia for definitions to thousands of frequently used chat abbreviations.

AAA
Short for authentication, authorization and accounting, a system in IP-based networking to control what computer resources users have access to and to keep track of the activity of users over a network.


Authentication is the process of identifying an individual, usually based on a username and password. Authentication is based on the idea that each individual user will have unique information that sets him or her apart from other users. 
Authorization is the process of granting or denying a user access to network resources once the user has been authenticated through the username and password. The amount of information and the amount of services the user has access to depend on the user's authorization level. 
Accounting is the process of keeping track of a user's activity while accessing the network resources, including the amount of time spent in the network, the services accessed while there and the amount of data transferred during the session. Accounting data is used for trend analysis, capacity planning, billing, auditing and cost allocation.

AAA services often require a server that is dedicated to providing the three services. RADIUS is an example of an AAA service.

AAF
Short for Advanced Authoring Format, a multimedia file format introduced by Microsoft in 1998. The goal of AAF is to provide a common file format that multimedia authoring applications can use so that it's possible to develop a multimedia presentation in one application and then edit it in a second application. This will allow designers to use a variety of different tools when creating multimedia content without needing to worry about converting files from one format to another. Whether AAF ultimately achieves this goal will depend on whether the software companies that develop authoring tools adopt AAF. 

AARP
Short for AppleTalk Address Resolution Protocol, a protocol for mapping a device's physical hardware address to a temporary Appletalk network-assigned address in Macintosh computer LANs. When a protocol stack sends a data packet, the protocol address specifies the destination. The data link layer relies on AARP to translate the protocol address into the hardware address of the destination node.

AAUI
Short for Apple Attachment Unit Interface, A 14-position, 0.050-inch-spaced ribbon contact connector.  Except for the pins that supply power, each AAUI signal has the same description, function, and electrical requirements as the AUI (Attachment Unit Interface) signal. The AAUI is the Apple standard used to connect Ethernet  transceivers in early Power Macintosh and Quadra computers. See also AUI.

abandonment
An electronic commerce term used to describe a visitor on a Web page who leaves that page before completing the desired action. Examples of abandonment include exiting before signing up for a newsletter or downloading an incentive. A similar electronic commerce term, shopping cart abandonment, refers to visitors who add items to their online shopping cart, but exit without completing the purchase.

ABAP
Short for Advanced Business Application Programming it is an object-oriented programming language used to develop applications for the SAP R/3 system, but was originally used for SAP R/2. It was developed by the German company SAP AG.

ABARS
Short for Aggregate group Backup And Recovery  Support, ABARS is a backup system for MVS S/390 mainframes from IBM. ABARS performs data backup and recovery processes on a predefined set of data called an aggregate. During backup processing, the data is packaged as a single entity in preparation for taking it off-site. This enables the recovery of individual applications in user-priority sequence. The original design of ABARS was for use in disaster recovery, but is  also used for transfer of workloads and remote distribution of data. [Adapted from IBM DFSMShsm ABARS and Mainstar Solutions (PDF)]

ABC
A personal computing programming language that was originally developed as a replacement for BASIC. ABC is suitable for beginners and experts alike and can be used for more general programming tasks, such as those a programmer might have used  BASIC, Pascal, or AWK
for.

ABEND
(1) Acronym for abnormal end of task. It refers to software crashes or lossage. Derives from an error message on the IBM 360.  (2) Acronym for Absent By Enforced Net Deprivation. Sent in e-mail subject lines warning friends and others of forced loss of Internet access (due to moving, network outages, or illness). 

ABIS
ABIS, the Automated Biometric Identification System (IDENT) is a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) managed system that is used for the storing and processing of biometric and biographic information for DHS national security, law enforcement, immigration, intelligence, and other DHS functions.

abort
To stop a program or function before it has finished naturally. The term abort refers to both requested and unexpected terminations. For example, many applications let you abort a search or a print job by pressing a specified abort key. On the other hand, programs can abort unexpectedly for any of the following reasons:  bugs in the software unexpected input that the program cannot handle hardware malfunction   When a program aborts, you are usually returned to the operating system shell level. Contrast abort with crash, which makes the entire system, including the operating system, unusable.   

above_the_fold
The portion of a Web page that is visible once the page has loaded, normally it is the very top part of a Web page. Above the fold is a key section of a Web site for advertisements and banner ads. This term is derived from the newspaper industry, referring to the portion of the front page that is visible with the paper folded.

ABR
Short for available bit rate, or Class C quality of service, an ATM bandwidth-allocation service that adjusts the amount of bandwidth based on the amount of traffic in the network. ABR service provides a guaranteed minimum bandwidth capacity but allows data to be bursted at higher capacities when the network is free.  Compare with CBR, UBR and VBR.

ABS
Short for automatic backup system. See also redundant and  back-up.

absolute_address
)A fixed address in memory. The term absolute distinguishes it from a relative address, which indicates a location by specifying a distance from another location. Absolute addresses are also called real addresses and machine addresses.    

absolute_cell_reference
In spreadsheet applications, a reference to a particular cell or group of cells that does not change, even if you change the shape or size of the spreadsheet, or copy the reference to another cell. For example, in Lotus 1-2-3 and other spreadsheet programs, the cell reference "$A$3" is an absolute cell reference that always points to the cell in the first column and third row. In contrast, the reference "A3" is a relative cell reference that initially points to the cell in the first column and third row, but may change if you copy the reference to another cell or change the shape and size of the spreadsheet in some other way. Absolute cell references are particularly useful for referencing constant values (i.e., values that never change).


abstract-data-type
Abstract data types are mathematical models of a set of data values or information that share similar behavior or qualities and that can be specified and identified independent of specific implementations.
Abstract data types, or ADTs, are typically used in algorithms. An abstract data type is defined in term of its data items or its associated operations rather than by its implementation.
According to the NIST definition for abstract data types, an abstract data structure or type "is defined indirectly, only by the operations that may be performed on it and by mathematical constraints on the effects (and possibly cost) of those operations."

abstraction
The process of picking out (abstracting) common features of objects and procedures. A programmer would use abstraction, for example, to note that two functions perform almost the same task and can be combined into a single function. Abstraction is one of the most important techniques in software engineering and is closely related to two other important techniques -- encapsulation and information hiding. All three techniques are used to reduce complexity. 

AC_3
The coding system used by Dolby Digital. The two terms, AC-3 and Dolby Digital, are often used interchangeably. 

acdc_virus
A malware worm that first appeared in July 2012, targeting Iranian nuclear facilities and turning infected PCs on at night before blasting the music band AC/DC's classic hit "Thunderstruck." 
The AC/DC virus follows several earlier attacks on Iran's nuclear program and oil facilities, including the Stuxnet and Flame viruses.  Iran has stated it believes the U.S. and Isreal are responsible for the attacks.

academic_retail_software
Also called academic retail, in software distribution academic retail software is the term used to describe a full version of a software package that is sold at a discount to academic users. Academic retail software are in factory sealed retail boxes and the software can be registered with the software vendor for warranty and technical support. Academic retail software is designated for student and student personal use, not commercial use. See "All About Software" in the "Did You Know...?" section of Webopedia.

ACAP
Short of Application Configuration Access Protocol, an e-mail protocol being developed by the IETF to complement IMAP4. ACAP supports related e-mail services such as subscribing to bulletin boards, and organizing and searching mailboxes and address books.  ACAP was previously known as IMSP (Interactive Mail Support Protocol). 

AcceleratedSAP
A certification offered by SAP AG designed for ERP professionals who work  with AcceleratedSAP. The AcelleratedSAP certification indicates that the holder  has been trained using AcceleratedSAP in one or more of the following  categories: Customer Solution Strategy, AcceleratedSAP Implementation, and/or  Continuous Business Improvement. Exams are administered at SAP facilities and  cost approximately $500. The exams last one hour and consist of 40 multiple  choice questions.
See also the  list  of Computer Certifications in Webopedia's  Quick Reference section.

accelerator_board
(1) Short for graphics accelerator.  (2) A type of expansion board that makes a computer faster by adding a faster CPU or FPU. Most modern computers are designed to accept simpler upgrades. Built into the motherboard is a socket in which the CPU sits. It is usually possible simply to remove the CPU and replace it with a faster model. This is particularly easy if the socket is a zero insertion force (ZIF) socket. 

accelerometer
An accelerometer is a device that measures non-gravitational accelerations. On the Apple iPhone there is a 3-way axis device which is used to determine the iPhone's physical position. The accelerometer can tell when the iPhone is tilted, rotated, or moved.   See also "iPhone and iPhone 3G b . What's The Difference?" in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

acceptable_use_policy
See AUP.

access_code
Same as password, a series of characters and numbers that enables a user to access a computer.  

access_control
Refers to mechanisms and policies that restrict access to computer resources. Also see ACL.

access_control_entry
Abbreviated as ACE, access control entry is an entry in an access control list (ACL) that will grant or deny a user or group access to a resource.  See also access control list (ACL).

Access_Level
In computer BIOS settings for Intel desktop boards, Access Level is a maintenance option that displays the current user's access level. See "BIOS Beep Codes" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. Also see "The System Boot Process Explained" in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

access_node
Another name for an edge switch.

access_server
(1) Same as remote access server (RAS).  (2) Short for Live Access Server (LAS). (3) Short for network access server (NAS).

Access_bus
A serial communications protocol developed by Philips Semiconductors and Digital Equipment (DEC) in 1985 for connecting peripheral devices to a computer. Access.bus is designed for hassle-free installation and configuration of relatively low-speed devices, such as keyboards, monitors, and printers. Access.bus uses a bus topology, which enables it to support up to 125 devices.  A competing standard, Universal Serial Bus (USB), is quickly becoming the serial standard of the future.   

accrual
In channel partner terminology, accrual is a financial stipend that is provided to the sales channel by the vendor or manufacturer. The accrual amount is a usually a percentage of the invoiced price of items sold to the channel partner over a set period of time (e.g. a percentage of the previous six month's sales).

ACD
Short for Automatic Call Distributor, a telephone facility that handles incoming calls and manages them based on a database of handling instructions.

Ace_of_Penguins
A popular set of a set of Unix/X solitaire computer games that are based on the games that are available in Microsoft Windows, but include enhancements like penguin-themed cards in FreeCell, and penguin pegs in the Pegged game. The latest version includes clones of FreeCell, Golf, Mastermind, Merlin, Minesweeper, Pegged, Solitaire, Taipei and Thornq.

acer_iconia_a100
The Acer Iconia a100 was the first Android tablet using the Honeycomb operating system (OS). It is a 7-inch Android tablet with a dual-core 1GHz ARM Cortex-A9 processor, 512-MB of RAM, and a 5-megapixel camera. The device was first released on August 12, 2011.
See Android Codenames to learn about updates for the open source Android mobile operating system. See also Essential Android Security Apps in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

ACHA
)
Short for Accelerated Hub Architecture (also called Intel Hub Architecture), Intel introduced this hub architecture starting with the 820 chipset. The hub architecture divides control between a memory controller hub (MCH) that supports memory and AGP and an I/O controller hub (ICH) that supports PCI, USB, sound, IDE and LAN. The word hub in Intel Hub Architecture refers to the north and south bridges in a chipset. Intel has replaced those two terms with the word hub.
[Image Source: INSIDE THE PC, Nigel S. Smith, University of Cambridge Computing Service]

achromatic_lens
In digital photography, achromatic is the term used to describe a camera lens system that is corrected for chromatic aberration, a defect in some optical lens systems that adds false color to images. Chromatic aberration is corrected by the achromatic lens as it brings two colors to the same focus. See  chromatic aberration. See also "The Digital Camera Picture" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

ACK
Short for acknowledgement code, a transmission control character used to indicate that a transmitted message was received uncorrupted or without errors or that the receiving station is ready to accept transmissions. The receiver sends the code to the sender to indicate that the transmission has been accepted.  Compare with NAK.

ACL
Short for access control list, a set of data that informs a computer's operating system which permissions, or access rights, that each user or group has to a specific system object, such as a directory or file. Each object has a unique security attribute that identifies which users have access to it, and the ACL is a list of each object and user access privileges such as read, write or execute.

ACM
Abbreviation of the Association for Computing Machinery, an organization composed of U.S. computer professionals. Founded in 1947, the ACM publishes information relating to computer science, holds seminars, and creates and promotes computer standards.   

acoustic_coupler
A device onto which a telephone handset is placed to connect a computer with a network. The acoustic coupler might also contain a modem, or the modem could be a separate device.
Popular in the 1970s, acoustic couplers are no longer widely used. Nowadays, telephones connect directly to a modem via modular telephone connectors. This produces better connections than acoustic couplers and avoids the problems produced by irregularly shaped telephones. Still, acoustic coupler modems are useful in some situations, such as in hotel rooms where the telephone cable is anchored to the wall. Modems that do not use an acoustic coupler are sometimes called direct-connect modems.


ACPI
Short for Advanced Configuration and Power Interface, a power management specification developed by Intel, Microsoft, and Toshiba. ACPI, which will be part of the next version of Windows, enables the operating system to control the amount of power given to each device attached to the computer. With ACPI, the operating system can turn off peripheral devices, such as a CD-ROM players, when they're not in use. As another example, ACPI will enable manufacturers to produce computers that automatically power up as soon as you touch the keyboard.


acquiring_bank
In electronic commerce, the acquiring bank is the financial institution that enters an electronic transaction into the collection stream. This is usually the bank used by the merchant for their business account.

acquisition_cost
In e-mail marketing, the acquisition cost or cost of acquisition is the actual cost of generating one single lead, new subscriber or customer. The acquisition cost is usually determined by dividing the total cost of a single e-mail marketing campaign by the number of leads, subscribers or customers.

ACS
Abbreviated as ACS, Automated Cartridge System is a storage and retrieval system, often used for library management. The ACS provides cartridge storage cells, transports, and a robotic mechanism to move cartridges between the cells.

ACSLS
Short for Automated Cartridge System Library Software, ACSLS is the software that controls an Automated Cartridge System (ACS).See also Automated Cartridge System.

active
Refers to objects currently being displayed or used. For example, in graphical user interfaces, the active window  is the window currently receiving mouse and keyboard input. In spreadsheet applications, the active cell is the cell, usually highlighted, in which data can be entered or modified. The active program  is the program currently running. When you enter a command, it usually applies only to the active elements.   

active_archiving
The process of removing a precise set of infrequently used reference data from an overloaded relational database and keeping it active in an archive where it can be easily and quickly retrieved when needed.  For example, a credit card company acquires large amounts of mission-critical data on its customers - names, addresses, balances, account numbers, interest rates. This information is critical to the company's daily operation. When a monthly bill is issued, that data can be put into an active archive because the company does not need that information unless there are questions about the bill. So the data is taken out of the relational database where it would slow the system down but left available so that it can be quickly accessed when needed.

active_child_mode
In digital camera terminology the active child mode is a type of scene mode photographers can use to produce the best results when photographing moving subjects, such as active children. The active child mode lets you frame and select the child before you begin shooting the pictures. Once framed the camera will then track and focus on that moving subject enabling you to shoot faster with clearer images as a result. Active child mode is a shooting mode found on many Nikon brand digital cameras and may also be an option when capturing motion picture recording (videos) using the camera, rather than still pictures.  See also "Digital Cameras" in the  Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

active_content
Refers to content on a Web site that is either interactive, such as Internet polls or opt-in features, or dynamic, such as animated GIFs, stock tickers, weather maps, JavaScript applications, embedded objects, streaming video and audio or ActiveX applications. Streaming video and audio rely on browser plug-ins, such as RealPlayer, to display active content.

active_data
Refers to data that is visible to the system's operating system or the application software with which it was created. Active data is accessible without modification or reconstruction, and would exclude data not stored on a local storage media or device. The term active data may also be used to describe only the data that is currently displayed on a computer screen.

Active_Desktop
A feature of Windows that began in Windows 98 that allows the user to store Web content on the desktop. The items that are placed on the active desktop receive feeds from the Internet that update the information as needed. They can also be static Web pages with hyperlinks on the desktop instead of in a browser. For example, a user can add such items as a stock ticker, a news feed, search buttons or weather reports. Active Desktop can host any HTML item, Java applets and ActiveX components.

Active_Directory
A directory service from Microsoft that is a part of Windows 2000. It is an implementation of Internet standard directory and naming protocols that uses a database engine for transactional support, and also supports a variety of application programming interface standards.


Active_Directory_Service_Interfaces
Active Directory Service Interfaces (ADSI) enable systems administrators and developers of scripts or C/C++ applications to easily query for and manipulate directory service objects. Active Directory Service Interfaces abstract the capabilities of different directory services from different network vendors to present a single set of directory service interfaces for managing network resources. Administrators and developers can use ADSI to manage the resources in a directory service, regardless of which network environment contains the resource. ADSI enables administrators to automate common tasks such as adding users and groups, managing printers, and setting permissions on network resources. [Source:  Microsoft Technical Resources]

active_hyperlink
A hyperlink is considered to be an active hyperlink from the time a user presses and releases the mouse button when clicking on the hyperlink. When designing a Web page, you can choose a font color to represent active hyperlinks.

active_impostor_acceptance
(n.) In a biometric security system, when an impostor intentionally submits a modified or forged biometric sample as that of an authentic enrollee with the purpose of gaining access to a system using the enrollee's identity. The forged sample is compared to the enrollee's reference template. Active impostor acceptance implies that the impostor successfully gains entrance into the system using the falsified identity.  Compare with passive impostor acceptance.

active_matrix_display
A type of flat-panel display in which the screen is refreshed more frequently than in conventional passive-matrix displays. The most common type of active-matrix display is based on a technology known as TFT (thin film transistor). The two terms, active matrix and TFT, are often used interchangeably.   

active_partition
The primary partition on a hard drive that typically contains and boots the operating system.

active_reconnaissance
(ak´tiv ri-kon´&-zents) (n.) The process of collecting information about an intended target of a malicious hack by probing the target system. Active reconnaissance typically involves port scanning in order to find weaknesses in the target system (i.e., which ports are left vulnerable and/or if there are ways around the firewall and routers). The process of exploiting the system can then be carried out once the hacker has found a way to access the system.
Compare with passive reconnaissance.

Active_Server_Pages
Abbreviated as ASP, a specification for a dynamically created Web page with a .ASP extension that utilizes ActiveX scripting -- usually VB Script or Jscript code. When a browser requests an ASP, the Web server generates a page with HTML code and sends it back to the browser. So ASPs are similar to CGI scripts, but they enable Visual Basic programmers to work with familiar tools.  ASP is also short for application service provider 

active_tag
In an RFID system the transponder which contains the data to be transmitted is called an RF tag. Active tags have an internal battery to power them and are usually RW (tag data can be rewritten and/or modified). Active tags generally can transmit their data over a longer distance, the tag itself is larger than a passive tag, and has a limited operational lifespan. The opposite of an active tag is a passive tag.

ActiveMovie
A multimedia streaming technology developed by Microsoft. ActiveMovie is already built into the Internet Explorer browser will be part of future versions of the Windows operating system. Supporting most multimedia formats, including MPEG, ActiveMovie enables users to view multimedia content distributed over the Internet, an intranet, or CD-ROM.  ActiveMovie's main competition is the QuickTime standard developed by Apple Computer. 

ActiveSync
ActiveSync is Windows Mobile software that allows you to synchronize Windows Mobile and other Windows CE-based devices with a Windows-based PC or Exchange Server. If your PC is running Windows Vista, synchronization is managed through the Windows Mobile Device Center. For earlier versions of Windows, you can download ActiveSync. The latest version of ActiveSync allows you to synchronize Microsoft Outlook information, Microsoft Office documents, pictures, music, videos and applications to and from your device.

ActiveX_control
ActiveX control is a control using Microsoft ActiveX technologies. An ActiveX control can be automatically downloaded and executed by a Web browser. ActiveX is not a programming language, but rather a set of rules for how applications should share information.
Programmers can develop ActiveX controls in a variety of languages, including C, C++, Visual Basic, and Java.
An ActiveX control is similar to a Java applet. Unlike Java applets, however, ActiveX controls have full access to the Windows operating system. This gives them much more power than Java applets, but with this power comes a certain risk that the applet may damage software or data on your machine. To control this risk, Microsoft developed a registration system so that browsers can identify and authenticate an ActiveX control before downloading it. Another difference between Java applets and ActiveX controls is that Java applets can be written to run on all platforms, whereas ActiveX controls are currently limited to Windows environments.

actuator
The part of a hard disk to which the read/write arms attaches. All the heads are attached to a single head actuator, also called an actuator arm, that moves the heads around the platters.  Older hard drives used a stepper motor actuator, which moved the heads based on a motor reacting to stepper pulses. Modern hard drives use a voice coil actuator, which controls the movement of a coil toward or away from a permanent magnet based on the amount of current flowing through it. This guidance system is called a servo.  See also Webopedia's "Did You Know... What's Inside a Hard Drive?"

adhoc_mode
See ad-hoc mode.

ad_targeting
In  online advertising, ad targeting refers to the practice of advertisers attempting to reach (target) a specific desired consumer audience. See also context-centric.

ad_hoc_mode
An 802.11 networking framework in which devices or stations communicate directly with each other, without the use of an access point (AP). Ad-hoc mode is also referred to as peer-to-peer mode or an Independent Basic Service Set (IBSS). Ad-hoc mode is useful for establishing a network where wireless infrastructure does not exist or where services are not required.

Ada
A high-level programming language developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s for the United States Defense Department. Ada was designed to be a general-purpose language for everything from business applications to rocket guidance systems. One of its principal features is that it supports real-time applications. In addition, Ada incorporates modular techniques that make it easier to build and maintain large systems. Since 1986, Ada has been the mandatory development language for most U.S. military applications. In addition, Ada is often the language of choice for large systems that require real-time processing, such as banking and air traffic control systems.  Ada is named after Augusta Ada Byron (1815-52), daughter of Lord Byron, and Countess of Lovelace. She helped Charles Babbage develop programs for the analytic engine, the first mechanical computer. She is considered by many to be the world's first programmer.   

adapter
(1) Short for expansion board.  (2) The circuitry required to support a particular device. For example, video adapters enable the computer to support graphics monitors, and network  adapters enable a computer to attach to a network. Adapters can be built into the main circuitry of a computer or they can be separate add-ons that come in the form of expansion boards.  (3) Short for Analog Telephone Adapter.

adaptive_hypermedia
Adaptive hypermedia, abbreviated as AH, is the next-generation of hypermedia applications. Where hypermedia serves the same pages and the same set of links to all users, adaptive hypermedia improves the usability of hypermedia by building a model of the preferences and knowledge of an individual user and uses this information to adapt the hypertext to the needs of that particular user.

ADB
Abbreviation of Apple Desktop Bus, a type of communications pathway built into all pre-G4 versions of the Apple Macintosh computer since the SE (except the iMac and the ibook). It is used to connect low-speed input devices such as the keyboard and mouse. ADB ports are designated with the icon. A single ADB port can support as many as 16 simultaneous input devices.  

adb
Short for Android Debug Bridge, adb is a command-line debugging application shipped with the Android SDK. Adb provides tools to browse the device, copy tools on the device, and forward ports for debugging.


ADC
(1) Acronym for ATA Disk on Chip. ADC is a chip that contains both a solid state disk (SSD) and an ATAPI bus interface. ADC is housed in a 600 mm 32-pin DIP package and uses a standard ATA/IDE protocol. ATA Disk on Chip is most commonly used in  thin client systems, PDAs and other small form factor devices. (2) Short for  analog-to-digital converter.

add_in
(1) A component you can add to a computer or other device to increase its capabilities. Add-ins can increase memory or add graphics or communications capabilities to a computer. They can come in the form of expansion boards, cartridges, or chips. The term add-in is often used instead of add-on for chips you add to a board that is already installed in a computer. In contrast, add-on almost always refers to an entire circuit board.  (2) A software program that extends the capabilities of larger programs. For example, there are many Excel add-ins designed to complement the basic functionality offered by Excel. In the Windows environment, add-ins are becoming increasingly common thanks to OLE 2.0.     (3) In Windows Home Server, add-in refers specifically to the supplemental programs that users can install to extend the capabilities of the Windows Home Server program. Most add-ins are third party or community developed.

add_on
Refers to a product designed to complement another product. For example, there are numerous add-on boards available that you can plug into a personal computer to give it additional capabilities. Another term for add-on board is expansion board.  Add-on products are also available for software applications. For example, there are add-on report generation programs that attach to popular database products such as dBASE, giving them additional report-generation and graphics capabilities.  The terms add-on and add-in are often, but not always, used synonymously. The term add-in can refer to individual chips you can insert into boards that are already installed in your computer. Add-on, on the other hand, almost always refers to an entire circuit board, cartridge, or program.   

add_on_manager
In Internet-enabled applications and services, an add-on manager is the term used to describe the management tab or section in application that stores information about installed add-ons (products designed to complement another product). An add-on manager can be accessed by the application user to set preferences and options for using add-ons. Some common applications that use add-on managers include AOL's AIM instant messenger and Firefox.

additive_primary_colors
Additive primary colors are the primary color elements that make up white light. These colors are called additives because you must add the colors together to create white. The additive primary colors are red, green, and blue (commonly called RGB) as they are the primary color elements. Additive primary colors are the primary colors of pigment that different systems apply to the colors that we see on computer screens and the colors that we see in printed media and photographs.  See "The Science of Color" in the Did You Know... section of Webopedia. See also Webopedia's  Digital Camera Quick Reference.

address
(1) A location of data, usually in main memory or on a disk. You can think of computer memory as an array of storage boxes, each of which is one byte in length. Each box has an address (a unique number) assigned to it. By specifying a memory address, programmers can access a particular byte of data. Disks are divided into tracks and sectors, each of which has a unique address. Usually, you do not need to worry about addresses unless you are a programmer.
(2) A name or token that identifies a network component. In local area networks (LANs), for example, every node has a unique address. On the Internet, every file has a unique address called a URL.


address_bus
A collection of wires connecting the CPU with main memory that is used to identify particular locations (addresses) in main memory. The width of the address bus (that is, the number of wires) determines how many unique memory locations can be addressed. Modern PCs and Macintoshes have as many as 36 address lines, which enables them theoretically to access 64 GB (gigabytes)of main memory. However, the actually amount of memory that can be accessed is usually much less than this theoretical limit due to chipset and motherboard limitations.


address_translation_cache
Another name for a translation look-aside buffer.

addressable_resolution
In digital television the addressable resolution is the highest resolution signal that a display device (TV or monitor) can accept. A device in some circumstances may not be able to display the highest resolution it can receive.

adjacency
In search engine optimization (SEO), adjacency is the term used to describe the relationship between words used in a search engine query. A higher value is placed on Web pages where the search terms appear next to one another as compared to the words appearing on the same page, but separated by other words.

adjacent_colors
Adjacent colors, also called analogous colors refers to the use of compatible color combinations that blend well together and are near each other on the color wheel (e.g. yellow, to yellow orange, to orange). These colors are more subdued and are not bright vivid colors.

adjunct_program
In computer-based training (CBT), also called computer-assisted instruction (CAI), an adjunct program is a device used by instructors to apply programming principles to course materials such as texts or manuals.  See also "Computer Certifications" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

administrative_domain
A collection of networks, computers, and databases under a common administration, such as an enterprise's intranet. The devices that operate in a singular administrative domain share common security features that are administered across the network and the entities that are associated with it.

administrative_privileges
The highest level of permission that is granted to a computer user. On home computers systems, the owner is usually the default administrator. In business and networked systems, this level of permission normally allows the user to install software, and change configuration settings. The term administrative privileges is most commonly used in reference to Microsoft operating systems.

ADO
Short for ActiveX Data Objects, Microsoft's high-level interface for data objects. ADO is designed to eventually replace Data Access Objects (DAO) and Remote Data Objects (RDO). Unlike RDO and DAO, which are designed only for accessing relational databases, ADO is more general and can be used to access all sorts of different types of data, including web pages, spreadsheets, and other types of documents.
Together with OLE DB and ODBC, ADO is one of the main components of Microsoft's Universal Data Access (UDA)specification, which is designed to provide a consistent way of accessing data regardless of how the data are structured.

Adobe_Certified_Associate_ACA
An Adobe Certified Associate (ACA) credential certifies that individuals have the entry-level skills to plan, design, build and maintain  effective communications using different forms of  digital media. This Adobe certification demonstrates entry-level skills with Adobe digital media  software. There are three Adobe Certified Associate (ACA) exams available -- for  individuals and for schools. Each of the following exams will validate  entry-level skills in communication corresponding to the respective Adobe  software:
 


ACA exam for Photoshop
ACA exam for Dreamweaver 
ACA exam for Flash Professional

See also the list of  Computer Certifications in Webopedia's  Quick Reference section.

Adobe_Certified_Expert_ACE
An Adobe Certified Expert (ACE) is a professional who has demonstrated  proficiency with one or more Adobe software products.  To become an Adobe Certified Expert (ACE), you must pass one or more  product-specific proficiency exams and agree to the ACE terms and conditions.  Adobe offers three Adobe Certified Expert (ACE) certifications:


Adobe Certified Expert (ACE)
Adobe Certified Expert (ACE) for Developers
 Adobe Certified Associate (ACA)

See also the  list  of Computer Certifications in Webopedia's  Quick Reference section.

Adobe_Photoshop
A leading paint program from Adobe Systems, Inc. For many years, Photoshop has been the model against which other paint programs are compared. Initially, it ran only on Macintosh systems, which was a strong selling point for Macs, especially among graphic artists. Today, Photoshop runs on both Macs and Windows PCs.  

ADPCM
Short for Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation, a form of pulse code modulation (PCM) that produces a digital signal with a lower bit rate than standard PCM. ADPCM produces a lower bit rate by recording only the difference between samples and adjusting the coding scale dynamically to accommodate large and small differences. Some applications use ADPCM to digitize a voice signal so voice and datacan be transmitted simultaneously over a digital facility normally used only for one or the other.

ADS
(pronounced as separate letters) Short for alternate data stream, a function of Microsoft's NTFS file system in which files can be embedded in other files and are invisible to the user through Windows Explorer (i.e., the ADS does not affect the size, function or display of the main file the ADS is attached to). While ADS files (which are well known throughout the hacker community) can be used maliciously by an attacker wishing to plant an executable file into another file without it being detected, ADS also is used legitimately by programmers. For example, an antivirus program can include a checksum value in an ADS attached to each file.  Microsoft originally included the ADS function in NTFS in order to ensure file server compatibility with the Macintosh hierarchical file system in which files are forked.

adsense
AdSense (Google AdSense) is an advertising placement service by Google. The program is designed for website publishers who want to display targeted text, video or image advertisements on website pages and earn money when site visitors view or click the ads.
The advertisements are controlled and managed by Google and Web publishers simply need to create a free AdSense account and copy and paste provided code to display the ads. Revenue using AdSense is generated on a per-click or per-impression basis. It is free to become a verified website publisher in the Google AdSense program.
Google currently offers a number of different AdSense programs, depending on the type of content you will place the ads on (e.g. webpage or RSS feed). Some of the more common programs include:

ADSL
Short for asymmetric digital subscriber line, ADSL is a type of DSL broadband communications technology used for connecting to the Internet. ADSL allows more data to be sent over existing copper telephone lines (POTS), when compared to traditional modem lines. A special filter, called a  microfilter, is installed on a subscriber's telephone line to allow both ADSL and regular voice (telephone) services to be used at the same time. ADSL requires a special ADSL modem and subscribers must be in close geographical locations to the provider's central office to receive ADSL service. Typically this distance is within a radius of 2 to 2.5 miles. ADSL supports data rates of from 1.5 to 9 Mbps when receiving data (known as the downstream rate) and from 16 to 640 Kbps when sending data (known as the upstream rate).
See Types of Internet Connections in Webopedia's Quick Reference section. Also see  Cable vs. DSL in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section. 

ADSL2_plus
ADSL+2 is an extension to ADSL broadband technology that provides subscribers with significantly faster download speeds when compared to traditional ADSL connections. ADSL+2 works in the same fashion as ADSL a special filter is installed on a subscriber's telephone line to split existing copper telephone lines (POTS) between regular telephone (voice) and ADSL+2. ADSL2+ service is most commonly offered in highly-populated metropolitan areas and subscribers must be in close geographical locations to the provider's central office to receive ADSL2+ service. See Types of Internet Connections in Webopedia's Quick Reference section. Also see  Cable vs. DSL in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section. 

advermation
A slang term derived from the words advertisement and information. In Internet and  online advertising, advermation is the term used to describe any advertisement or marketing message that is presented to users as useful information.

adware
(n.) (1) Adware is the common name used to describe software that is given to the user with advertisements embedded in the  application. Adware is considered a legitimate alternative offered to consumers who do not wish to pay for software. There are many ad-supported programs, games or utilities that are distributed as adware (or freeware).  Today we have a growing number of software developers who offer their goods as "sponsored" freeware (adware) until you pay to register. If you're using legitimate adware, when you stop running the software, the ads should disappear, and you always have the option of disabling the ads by purchasing a registration key.
(2) Another use of the phrase adware is to describe a form of  spyware that collects information about the user in order to display advertisements in the  Web browser. Unfortunately, some applications that contain adware track your Internet surfing habits in order to serve ads related to you. When the adware becomes intrusive like this, then we move it into the spyware category and it then becomes something you should avoid for privacy and security reasons.
See   The Difference Between Adware & Spyware in the   Did You Know...? section of Webopedia.  Also see Webopedia's "All About Software" article.

adwords
AdWords (Google  AdWords) is an  advertising service by Google for businesses wanting to display  ads on Google and its advertising network. The AdWords program enables  businesses to set a budget for advertising and only pay when people click the  ads. The ad service is largely focused on  keywords.
Businesses that use AdWords can create relevant ads using keywords that  people who search the Web using the Google  search engine would use. The keyword,  when searched for triggers your ad to be shown. AdWords at the top ads that  appear under the heading "Sponsored Links" found on the right-hand side or above  Google search results. If your AdWords ad is clicked on, Google search users are  then directed to your website.When choosing keywords for your AdWords  campaigns different matching options are available. The two main keyword match  options include the following:


Broad Match: This reaches the most users by showing your  ad whenever your keyword is searched for.
Negative Match: This option  prevents your ad from showing when a word or phrase you specify is searched for.
Phrase Match: Your ad is shown for searches that match the exact phrase.
Exact Match: Your ad is shown for searches that match the exact phrase exclusively.

When using AdWords keywords are also used to determine your cost of  	advertising. Each keyword you choose will have a cost per click (CPC) bid amount.  The bids specify the maximum amount you're willing to pay each time someone  clicks your ad (the maximum cost-per-click). A higher  	CPC bid can allow your ad  to show at a higher position on the page.

AES
(1) Short for Advanced Encryption Standard, a symmetric 128-bit block data encryption technique developed by Belgian cryptographers Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen. The U.S government adopted the algorithm as its encryption technique in October 2000, replacing the DES encryption it used. AES works at multiple network layers simultaneously. The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) of the U.S. Department of Commerce selected the algorithm, called Rijndael (pronounced Rhine Dahl or Rain Doll), out of a group of five algorithms under consideration, including one called MARS from a large research team at IBM.While the terms AES and Rijndael are used interchangeably, there are some differences between the two. AES has a fixed block size of 128-bits and a key size of 128, 192, or 256-bits, whereas Rijndael can be specified with any key and block sizes in a multiple of 32-bits, with a minimum of 128-bits and a maximum of 256-bits.  (2) Short for Audio Engineering Society, AES is a professional standards organization that is devoted exclusively to audio technology. Founded in 1948, AES is an international organization with a mission of uniting audio engineers, creative artists, scientists and students. AES currently has over 14,000 members and offers guest speakers, technical tours, demonstration, scientific presentations and exhibitions. The organization is also involved in the creation and maintenance of international standards in the areas of digital and analog audio engineering, communications technology, acoustics, media preservation and creative practice.

AF
AF is a common abbreviation for the following computer, Internet or technology phrases:
(1) Short for  audio frequency.
(2) Short for  Anisotropic Filtering

AF_Servo
On a digital SLR camera, an AF (auto-focus) Servo refers to the capability of the camera to continuously focus on a moving subject. When using the camera, you would normally press the shutter button to a halfway point, allow the camera's auto-focus to engage, then press the shutter button all the way down to capture the subject. See also auto-focus.Also see The Digital Camera Picture" in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

AFC
Short for Application Foundation Classes, a set of Microsoft foundation classes written entirely in Java. The AFC sits on top of the Java Development Kit (JDK) and extends Sun's Abstract Window Toolkit (AWT). A similar group of foundation classes is Netscape's Internet Foundation Classes (IFC).  

affiliate
In affiliate programs, the Webmaster or site owner who earns a revenue, usually commission-based, for conversion of leads, clicks or sales on the advertiser's site.See "How Affiliate Marketing Works" in the "Did You Know..." section of Webopedia. Also see Refer-It.com, a directory of referral & affiliate programs for e-commerce, featuring information on over 6,500 affiliate programs.

affiliate_program
An automated marketing program where a Web advertiser or merchant recruits webmasters to place the merchant's banner ads or buttons on their own Web site. Webmasters will receive a referral fee or commission from sales when the customer has clicked the affiliate link to get to the merchant's Web site Web site to perform the desired action, usually make a purchase or fill out a contact form. The most common types of affiliate programs include pay-per-click, pay-per-lead, and pay-per-sale.
See "How Affiliate Marketing Works" in the "Did You Know..." section of Webopedia. Also see Refer-It.com, a directory of referral & affiliate programs for e-commerce, featuring information on over 6,500 affiliate programs.


affirmative_consent
In e-mail marketing, affirmative consent is the request by a Web site reader to receive advertising or promotional information via e-mail newsletters through an opt-in form on the Web site.

AFIS
Short for Automated Fingerprint Identification System, AFIS is a type of biometric system that uses digital imaging to capture a fingerprint, which then can then be compared to a database of fingerprint records to help determine the identity of an individual. AFIS is a biometrics system commonly used in law enforcement where sets of prints are recorded at crime scenes, digitally captured and then compared to fingerprint records in the AFIS system. Civilian uses of AFIS include fingerprint scanners for security purposes. See  "How Fingerprint Scanners Work" in the ""Did You Know..." section of Webopedia. See also  "How Biometrics Security Works" in the "Did You Know..." section of Webopedia.

AFP
(1) Short for AppleTalk Filing Protocol, the  client/server file sharing  protocol used in an AppleTalk network. A non-Apple network can only access data from an AppleShare file server by first translating into the AFP language. AFP over TCP/IP, a flavor of AFP, allows users to access AFP servers over TCP/IP networks. (2) Short for Advanced Function Presentation, IBM's AFP platform is a published standard in the print industry for printing variable data at very high speeds with complete integrity. AFP incorporates other industry formats, including EPS, PDF, TIFF, GIF, JPEG, XML, XSL, PostScript, PCL and PPML.to cover the entire range of text, image, graphics, process color, highlight color and monochrome printing. AFP has the capability to print on standard printing device and deliver content via HTML, fax, e-mail or screen. [Adapted from the IBM Printers Web site].

after_sales_support
A term used to describe the ongoing relationship between the  OEM and customer where services are rendered to the customer throughout the product life cycle to the end of life. This type of support typically includes warranty, upgrade and repair services.

agate_line
In desktop publishing and word processing, it is the term used to describe a standard print advertising space, commonly used in newspaper adverts. An agate line is one column wide by one agate in depth, or 1/14 of an inch. As the column width varies by publication, the agate line is not an absolute size.

agent
(n.) A program that performs some information gathering or processing task in the background. Typically, an agent is given a very small and well-defined task.
Although the theory behind agents has been around for some time, agents have become more prominent with the growth of the Internet. Many companies now sell software that enables you to configure an agent to search the Internet for certain types of information.
In computer science, there is a school of thought that believes that the human mind essentially consists of thousands or millions of agents all working in parallel. To produce real artificial intelligence, this school holds, we should build computer systems that also contain many agents and systems for arbitrating among the agents' competing results.

aggregate_function
A function that performs a computation on a set of values rather than on a single value. For example, finding the average or mean of a list of numbers is an aggregate function.  All database management and spreadsheet systems support a set of aggregate functions that can operate on a set of selected records or cells.  

agile_software_development
Agile development is a phrase used in software development to describe methodologies for incremental software development. Agile development is an alternative to traditional project management where emphasis is placed on empowering people to collaborate and make team decisions in addition to continuous planning, continuous testing and continuous integration.
The Agile Manifesto
Agile development is used to  describe any development process that is aligned with the concepts of the Agile Manifesto. This well-known documentation was developed by leaders in the software industry and is based on experience with what works and what doesn't in software development.


AGP
Short for Accelerated Graphics Port, an interface specification developed by Intel Corporation. AGP is based on PCI, but is designed especially for the throughput demands of 3-D graphics. Rather than using the PCI bus for graphics data, AGP introduces a dedicated point-to-point channel so that the graphics controller can directly access main memory. The AGP channel is 32 bits wide and runs at 66 MHz. This translates into a total bandwidth of 266 MBps, as opposed to the PCI bandwidth of 133 MBps. AGP also supports two optional faster modes, with throughputs of 533 MBps and 1.07 GBps. In addition, AGP allows 3-D textures to be stored in main memory rather than video memory.  AGP has a couple important system requirements:  The chipset must support AGP. The motherboard must be equipped with an AGP bus slot or must have an integrated AGP graphics system. The operating system must be the OSR 2.1 version of Windows 95, Windows 98 or Windows NT 4.0. And currently, many professional Macintoshes support AGP.   AGP-enabled computers and graphics accelerators hit the market in August, 1997. However, there are several different levels of AGP compliance. The following features are considered optional:  Texturing: Also called Direct Memory Execute mode, allows textures to be stored in main memory. Throughput: Various levels of throughput are offered: 1X is 266 MBps, 2X is 533 MBps; and 4X provides 1.07 GBps. Sideband Addressing: Speeds up data transfers by sending command instructions in a separate, parallel channel. Pipelining: Enables the graphics card to send several instructions together instead of sending one at a time.  Also see  Understanding Video and Graphics Adapters  in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section.

AGP_Pro
AGP Pro is an extension to the AGP interface specification that meets the needs of advanced workstation graphics. This specification is designed to provide additional electrical power to the graphics add-in cards. The AGP Pro definition includes an extended connector, thermal envelope, mechanical specifications for cards, I/O brackets, and motherboard layout requirements.

AHT
Acronym for Average Hold Time Average Hold Time, or AHT, refers to the average length of time between the moment a caller finishes dialing and the moment the call is answered or terminated. The formula for measuring AHT is the total call time divided by the amount of calls. To achieve a realistic AHT figure, the ITU recommendation is that the AHT calculation be based on trace samples ranging from 15 to 60 minutes.

artificial_intelligence
Artificial intelligence is the branch of computer science concerned with making computers behave like humans. The term was coined in 1956 by John McCarthy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
AI Specialization
Artificial intelligence includes the following areas of specialization:

games playing: programming computers to play games against human opponents
expert systems: programming computers to make decisions in real-life situations (for example, some expert systems help doctors diagnose diseases based on symptoms)
natural language: programming computers to understand natural human languages
neural networks: Systems that simulate intelligence by attempting to reproduce the types of physical connections that occur in animal brains
robotics: programming computers to see and hear and react to other sensory stimuli

Can Computers Exhibit Full AI?
Currently, no computers exhibit full artificial intelligence (that is, are able to simulate human behavior). The greatest advances have occurred in the field of games playing. The best computer chess programs are now capable of beating humans. In May, 1997, an IBM super-computer called Deep Blue defeated world chess champion Gary Kasparov in a chess match.

AIIM
Short for Association for Information and Image Management AIIM is an international ECM non-profit organization that provides education, research and best practices to help organizations find, control and optimize their business information including including documents, content, records and business processes.  AIIM was founded in 1943 as the National Microfilm Association and later became the Association for Information and Image Management. Today, AIIM is international in scope, independent, implementation-focused, and, as the representative of the entire ECM industry  including users, suppliers, and the channel  acts as the industry's intermediary. See also Enterprise Content Management.

AIM
Short for AOL Instant Messenger, AIM is a public IM network that was launched by AOL in 1997. AIM is an advertising supported platform, meaning its users will often see ads displayed while using the client. AIM supports file-sharing, buddy lists, RSS feeds, the capability to send messages to users who are offline, a universal address book, AIM pages, AIM bots, a customizable interface, AIM plug-ins, and other features. Current AIM clients include AIM 6.8, Pro, AIM express, AIM Triton, as well as an assortment of beta and mobile clients. AIM is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux platforms. See "A Quick Reference to Consumer Instant Messaging" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. See also "Internet-based Communications" in the Did You Know... section of Webopedia.

AIP
AIP is short for application infrastructure provider.
A hosting provider that offers a full set of infrastructure services for hosting online applications, or more simply, an ASP for ASPs.

air-conditioning-airflow-efficiency-acae
In data center terminology air conditioning airflow efficiency (ACAE) is a unit of measurement that means the amount of heat removed per standard cubic foot of airflow per minute.

air_cooling
Air cooling is a standard method of system cooling used to method of dissipate heat. The object being cooled will have a flow of air moving over its surface. Most air cooling systems use a combination of fans and heat sinks, which exchanges heat with air.See also heat sink. Contrast with liquid cooling systems (LCS)

airdrop
A file sharing feature from Apple available on mobile devices running the iOS 7 (and later) mobile operation system as well as laptops and desktops running Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and later. Photos and videos can be shared with AirDrop, as well as notes, URLs, Passbook passes, contact cards, iTunes Radio stations, app listings and more.


airframe
An open source cloud computing platform targeted at organizations in the thinking stage of adopting a private cloud services model or evaluating options and alternatives for private cloud solutions. Airframe is distributed by Piston, a San Francisco-based cloud computing startup.
Editor's Recommendation: Cloud Computing Glossary of Terms.
Airframe offers a simple installation process and Piston claims it can deliver on all of OpenStack's core capabilities, including compute, storage, networking and cloud management. The platform is intended as a stepping stone to the company's paid Piston Enterprise OpenStack product.

AirPort
A WLAN networking device by Apple Computer. It is based on Wi-Fi standards ( IEEE 802.11b) and is compatible with other 802.11b devices. Similar devices from Apple Computer that are based on the IEEE 802.11g specification are called AirPort Extreme.

airtime
The actual timer subscribers spend talking on their cellular phones. Many cell phone plans are based on the number of airtime minutes that can be used each month. Pay-As-You-Go plans, for example, allows cellphone owners to pay in advance for talk time, and add add more airtime as needed, by day, week or month.

AIT
Short for Advanced Intelligent Tape, a magnetic tape storage system developed by Sony. AIT uses 8mm cassette tapes that can hold up to 100GB of data. AITs use helical scan technology and typically are used in data backup and data storage.  Compare with DLT.

Ajax
Short for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML, it is a term that describes a new approach to using a number of existing technologies together, including the following: HTML or XHTML, Cascading Style Sheets, JavaScript, the Document Object Model, XML, XSLT, and the XMLHttpRequest object. When these technologies are combined in the Ajax model, Web applications are able to make quick, incremental updates to the user  interface without reloading the entire browser page. [Source: mozilla developer center]
 
Ajax is also seen written in all capital letters (AJAX).

Alan_Turing
1912(b)-1954(d). Alan Turing — English mathematician, logician and philosopher who made important advancements in the field of computer theory and who contributed important logical analyses of computer processes.
Universal Turing Machine
During WWII, Turing served in the cryptanalytic headquarters at the Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire, where he was largely responsible for breaking the German Enigma military codes. In 1936, he introduced the Universal Turing Machine, a hypothetical machine used for computability theory proofs. The Universal Turing Machine is regarded as the first digital computer.
The Turing Test
In 1950, Turing introduced the Turing Test to prove his theory that computers eventually would be constructed that would be capable of human thought. His papers on the subject provide a foundation for modern research in artificial intelligence.

alert_box
(n.) A small box that appears on the display screen to give you information or to warn you about a potentially damaging operation. For example, it might warn you that the system is deleting one or more files. Unlike dialog boxes, alert boxes do not require any user input. However, you need to acknowledge the alert box by pressing the Enter key or clicking a mouse button to make it go away.  Alert boxes are also called message boxes.   

algorithm
(al´g&-rith-&m) (n.) A formula or set of steps for solving a particular problem. To be an algorithm, a set of rules must be unambiguous and have a clear stopping point. Algorithms can be expressed in any language, from natural languages like English or French to programming languages like FORTRAN.
We use algorithms every day. For example, a recipe for baking a cake is an algorithm. Most programs, with the exception of some artificial intelligence applications, consist of algorithms. Inventing elegant algorithms -- algorithms that are simple and require the fewest steps possible -- is one of the principal challenges in programming.


ALI
Short for Automatic Location Identification, a technology advanced by the FCC to help identify and locate the source of emergency 911 calls made from mobile phones. See E911.

aliasing
(1) In computer graphics, the process by which smooth curves and other lines become jagged because the resolution of the graphics device or file is not high enough to represent a smooth curve. Smoothing and antialiasing techniques can reduce the effect of aliasing.  (2) In digital sound, aliasing is a static distortion resulting from a low sampling rate-below 40 kilohertz (Khz).  (3) Also see e-mail aliasing.

ALICE
Short for Artificial Linguistic Computer Entity, an open source, natural language chatbot that relies on artificial intelligence for human interaction.  ALICE is programmed with AIML (Artificial Intelligence Markup Language), a XML specification for programming chat bots. Its simplicity and ease-of-use allows non-programmers, who have some HTML experience, to create their own chat bots. With AIML, developers can create customized chat bots with unique personalities and areas of expertise.

Alienware
In business since 1996, Alienware is a manufacturer of high-performance desktop, notebook, media and professional computing systems. Alienware has become a popular choice for those looking to build computer gaming systems and also offers its customers unique case designs and trendy system series names like Aurora and Area-51. 

alignment
(1) When used to describe text, the arrangement of text or graphics relative to a margin. Flush left alignment means that text is lined up along the left margin. Flush  right alignment lines up text along the right margin. Centered alignment means that text is aligned around a midpoint. Justified  alignmentmeans that text lines up along both margins.
(2) In reference to graphical objects, alignment describes their relative positions. Most draw programs support an align command that allows you to align two or more objects so that their tops, bottoms, sides, or middles are aligned.


aLinux
A Linux distribution that was created by Jay Klepacs. This  distribution uses KDE as the default window system and it was designed to give users a Windows XP style look and feel. Formerly called "Peanut Linux", the last version of aLinux to be released was Version 12.8 on July 28, 2006. 

ALiS
Short for Alternate Lighting of Surfaces, ALiS is a high-definition plasma panel designed for displaying 1080i. A progressive-scan plasma TV would illuminate all pixels all the time, but using an ALiS plasma displays only alternate rows (half of available pixels) of pixels are illuminated. ALiS offers bright and clear pictures with a reduction in power consumption and increased panel life. ALiS was developed by Fujitsu.

all-in-one_pc
All-in-one PCs, also known as all-in-one desktops, integrate the computer case and system components into the monitor so that the entire PC  is contained all in one unit.  All-in-one (AIO) desktop PCs offer the advantage of a smaller form factor than desktop PCs, but they often come with several drawbacks as well, including higher cost, weaker performance and limited upgrade options.
The all-in-one computer design debuted with the Apple iMac in 1998.  While the early all-in-one PC computers were expensive and bulky, all-in-one PCs have become much slimmer, lighter and cheaper with the advent of LCD monitors and smaller, less expensive desktop system components.

all_in_one_printer
A single print device that serves several functions, including printing, faxing, scanning, and copying. Also called a multifunction printer (MFP). All-in-one is often abbreviated as AiO.See multifunction peripheral for definition of this device.

allocated_memory
Is the amount of RAM allotted to different programs and applications. The amount of allocated memory is preset when you install your program and varies depending on how large the application is.  Making sure that your computer has enough RAM will 1.) increase the ease at which the program processes the file 2.) cause less strain on your system and 3.) prevent your system from crashing.  On a Macintosh, you can change the allotted amount of RAM to a given  program by clicking once on the program icon, choosing "get info" from  the file menu, and changing the minimum and preferred sizes in the  memory requirement box. You must click the actual icon; it won't work with an alias, and you must be closed out of the program. This option is beneficial when working with large applications, lets say in Photoshop, where an increase of RAM is needed when working on those 50+ MB documents.  On the Windows platform, allocated memory cannot be changed manually. Windows tries to determine how much RAM will be needed for a given application. 

Aloha
1. A protocol for satellite and terrestrial radio transmissions. In pure Aloha, a user can transmit at any time but risks collisions with other users' messages. "Slotted Aloha" reduces the chance of collisions by dividing the channel into time slots and requiring that the user send only at the beginning of a time slot. Aloha was the basis for Ethernet, a local area network protocol.   2. Aloha Networks, Inc. -- A San Francisco-based company specializing in providing satellite-based Internet access to large Internet Service Providers. Founded by the inventor of the Aloha system, Norman Abramson.   3. @loha @home -- software from Media Synergy (www.mediasyn.com) that allows a user to add graphics, animation, and sound to e-mail messages. 

alpha_geek
Slang term used to describe the one person within your office, business, organization or social group who has the most expertise in technical and computer issues.

alpha_version
A very early version of a software product that may not contain all of the features that are planned for the final version. Typically, software goes through two stages of testing before it is considered finished. The first stage, called alpha testing, is often performed only by users within the organization developing the software. The second stage, called beta testing , generally involves a limited number of external users.
 

Alt_key
Short for Alternate key, the Alt key is like a second Control key. Not all computer keyboards have an Alt key, but it is standard on all PCs. You use it in the same fashion as the Control key -- holding it down while you press another key. For example, an instruction to use the Alt+P combination means that you should hold the Alt key down while pressing and then releasing the P key. The meaning of any Alt key combination depends on which application is running.  On Macintoshes, the equivalent key is called the Option key.   

Alta_Vista
The name of a software firm associated with Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC). Alta Vista offers software products you can use to locate and manage information on the Internet or a private computer network that uses Internet tools (an intranet). The best known product from this company is the Alta Vista Search system that anyone can use to find information on the World Wide Web. People often use the term Alta Vista to refer to this free search service.  The Alta Vista search service contains one of the largest Web indices. The index is maintained and generated by programs, called robots or spiders, that follow links on Web pages, download the pages, and then index them according to the words and phrases that the pages contain.  Also see How Web Search Engines Work in the Did You Know . . . ? section of Webopedia.

ALU
Abbreviation of arithmetic logic unit, the part of a computer that performs all arithmetic computations, such as addition and multiplication, and all comparison operations. The ALU is one component of the CPU(central processing unit).


Amaya
An open source Web browser editor that authors can use to create and update documents on the Web. Amaya offers integration between browsing and editing features in a single environment. Amaya started at W3C in 1996 as HTML plus CSS style sheets editor. Currently, it supports XML and a number of XML applications, such as MathML. Amaya also includes a collaborative annotation application based on Resource Description Framework (RDF), XLink, and XPointer. Amaya is hosted by W3C and is available for Windows, Unix and MacOS X platforms.

appstore
A specific term that refers to Amazon's online store for purchasing and downloading software applications and mobile apps for the company’s Kindle line of e-book readers as well as other Android-powered devices.  The "appstore" name used by Amazon has led to legal action by Apple for its similarity to the company's own App Store, and it's also frequently confused with the more generic "app store" term that’s used to represent the market of emerging app stores such as Apple’s App Store for its iOS-powered devices, the Android Market for Android devices, Blackberry’s App World for Blackberry devices and Nokia's Ovi Store.
Similar to Apple's App Store, developers can submit their free or paid apps for inclusion on the Amazon Appstore, with developers of paid apps receiving either 70 percent of the sales price or 20 percent of the developer’s list price.  The Amazon Appstore also features a "free app a day" program in which one paid app is offered for free for one day only.

amazon-echo
Amazon Echo is a new smart speaker product from Amazon that combines voice recognition "intelligent assistant" capabilities with speaker functionality in a cylindrical speaker form factor.
Amazon Echo's intelligent assistant capabilities mimic those of Apple Siri and Microsoft Cortana, and it features seven different microphones with beam-forming technology for picking up voice requests and commands from any direction and any location in a room.
How Amazon Echo Works and Its Speaker Functionality
Amazon Echo responds to voice control by returning information on products, music, news, weather, sports and more. The back-end engine for Amazon Echo runs on Amazon Web Services in the cloud, enabling it to learn an individual or family's preferences and expand its functionality over time.

amazon_s3
Amazon's Simple Storage Service, or Amazon S3 for short, is a personal cloud storage service from Amazon's Web Services (Amazon AWS). Amazon S3 debuted in 2006 as a cost-effective Web services solution for developers to store and retrieve data at any point in time from anywhere Web access is available.
Amazon S3 customers receive up to 5 GB of online data storage for free, with commercial tiered plans available for those with additional storage or more intensive data transfer needs. In addition to its use for personal cloud storage, Amazon S3 has also become increasingly utilized by commercial services for cloud services, with companies like Dropbox, Ubuntu One and SmugMug relying on Amazon S3 for cloud storage and transfer.

amazon-simpledb
A non-relational database cloud service that can be used to store and query data items via web services requests through Amazon Web Services (AWS). Amazon SimpleDB frees companies from the administrative tasks of maintaining databases while providing high availability and flexibility to its customers.  As its name implies, Amazon SimpleDB is suited more for less complex database environments where users need to quickly look up and access data in non-relational databases. As with other Amazon AWS services, Amazon SimpleDB customers are charged based on the resources used to store their SimpleDB data and the requests made to access that data.
Amazon SimpleDB complements other services offered through Amazon Web Services, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), which handles storing files in the cloud, and Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), which provides customers the ability to run a variety of database servers in situations where the database’s complexity is more than Amazon's SimpleDB service is designed to handle.
 

amazon-virtual-private-cloud-amazon-vpc
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) lets you set up a private cloud (a private, isolated section) within the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing service. Using Amazon VPC, organizations can launch AWS resources in a virtual network topology.
Amazon VPC provides organizations complete control over the virtual networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, creation of subnets and configuration of route tables and network gateways.
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud Security Features
Additionally, Amazon VPC provides security features such as security groups and network access control lists to enable inbound and outbound filtering at the instance level and subnet level. Users can also choose to launch Dedicated Instances that run on hardware dedicated to a single customer for additional isolation.

amazon-web-services-aws
Amazon Web Services, or AWS, is a cloud computing platform from Amazon that provides customers with a wide array of cloud services. Among the cloud options offered by Amazon AWS are Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC), Amazon SimpleDB and Amazon WorkSpaces.
Amazon first debuted its Amazon Web Services in 2006 as a way to enable the use of online services by client-side applications or other web sites via HTTP, REST or SOAP protocols. Amazon bills customers for Amazon AWS based on their usage of the various Amazon Web Services.  In 2012, Amazon launched the AWS Marketplace to accommodate and grow the emerging ecosystem of AWS offerings from third-party providers that have built their own solutions on top of the Amazon Web Services platform. The AWS Marketplace is an online store for Amazon Web Services customers to find, compare and begin using AWS software and technical services.

amazon-workspaces
Amazon WorkSpaces is a desktop computing service offered to customers through the cloud. Amazon WorkSpaces desktops are part of the Amazon Web Services (AWS) suite of services and enable users to access, store and work with documents, applications and computing resources from any device anywhere and at any time.
Amazon WorkSpaces are fully managed by Amazon and can be accessed by laptop, desktop, or any number of mobile devices, including iPads, Amazon's Kindle Fire or other Android-based tablets. WorkSpaces users are billed on a pay-as-you-launch model, with monthly fees based on the number and type of WorkSpaces desktops launched.
The benefits of using Amazon WorkSpaces for companies come from potential cost savings, both in terms of up-front hardware infrastructure expenses as well as ongoing maintenance costs for managing and servicing physical desktop computers.

ambidextrous-computing
A phrase coined by AMD to describe the bridging ARM and x86 systems (for CPUs and SoCs). The AMD CPU core design is compatible with the 64-bit ARMv8 instruction set and offers high-performance 64-bit ARM and x86 CPU cores paired with graphics.
AMD's ambidextrous computing roadmap includes "Project SkyBridge" – a new design framework, that is expected to be available in 2015, which will feature a new family of 20 nanometer APUs and SoCs that are expected to be the world's first pin-compatible ARM and x86 processors.  The "K12" is a new high-performance, low-power ARM-based core that takes deep advantage of AMD’s ARM architectural license and extensive 64-bit design. The core development team is led by Chief CPU Architect Jim Keller.
AMD has demonstrated its 64-bit ARM-based AMD Opteron A-Series processor, codenamed "Seattle" running a Linux environment derived from the Fedora Project.

Ambient_Air_Temperature
In computer BIOS settings for some specific BTX Intel desktop boards, Ambient Air Temperature is an advanced hardware monitoring option that displays the temperature near the remote thermal diode on BTX form factor boards. See "BIOS Beep Codes" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. Also see "The System Boot Process Explained" in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

ambient_light
In digital photography terms, ambient light refers to the natural light in a scene that you are shooting. See also "The Digital Camera Picture" in  Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

AMD
Short for Advanced Micro Devices, a manufacturer of chips for personal computers. AMD is challenging Intel with a set of Intel-compatible microprocessors.

AMD_Fusion
The codename for a new microprocessor design that was developed as a result of AMD's acquisition of ATI. Fusion is a multi-core microprocessor architecture that combines processing and graphic cores into a single processor package. AMD's Fusion CPU/GPU hybrid processor is not expected to appear at retail until around 2011.

AMD_Virtualization
AMD's Virtualization (AMD-V) technology, which takes some tasks that virtual machine managers (VMMs) perform in software, through emulation, and simplifies them through enhancements to the AMD Athlon 64 and Opteron instruction set. AMD Virtualization Technology was announced in 2004, under the code-name Pacifica, and AMD released technical details in mid-2005.  Processors using this technology are expected to appear in 2006. See also "Understanding Hardware-Assisted Virtualization" in Webopedia's Did You Know section.

AMD64
The AMD64 or x86-64 or x64 is a 64-bit processor architecture invented by AMD.  AMD64 is designed to enable simultaneous 32- and 64-bit computing with no degradation in performance. With Direct Connect Architecture, AMD64 processors address and help eliminate challenges and bottlenecks related to system architectures because everything is directly connected to the central processing unit. Also see  All About Dual-Core Processors in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section.

America_Online
A popular online service. It is often abbreviated as AOL.  

Amiga
A family of personal computers originally produced by Commodore Business Machines. Amigas are powerful personal computers that have extra microprocessors to handle graphics and sound generation. The Amiga operating system has had preemptive multitasking since its inception in 1985, 10 years before this feature found its way into Microsoft Windows.
Like older Apple Macintosh computers, the Amiga line of computers is built around the Motorola 680x0 line of microprocessors. Although the Amiga operating system is not compatible with other PC operating systems, such as DOS and Windows, there are emulationprograms that enable an Amiga to run PC, Macintosh, and even UNIX programs.
Faced with financial hardships, Commodore sold the Amiga to a German company called Escom AG. Escom, in turn, also went bankrupt. In March, 1997, Gateway 2000 purchased the Amiga design.

amperage
The strength of a current of electricity expressed and measured in amperes.

amplifier
An electronic device or electrical circuit that is used to boost (amplify) the power, voltage or current of an applied signal.

amplifier_repeater
A repeater that cannot distinguish between a data signal and transmission noise along a network. An amplifier repeater will receive the signal and amplify it regardless of the integrity of the signal.

AMR_WB
Short for Adaptive Multi Rate -- WideBand AMR-WB is a standard speech codec that uses a wider bandwidth of 50 to 7000 Hz to offer a higher speech quality. AMR-WB is the ITU-T G.722.2 specification and is standardized for used in networks such as UMTS.

analog
(adj.) Also spelled analogue, describes a device or system that represents changing values as continuously variable physical quantities. A typical analog device is a clock in which the hands move continuously around the face. Such a clock is capable of indicating every possible time of day. In contrast, a digital clock is capable of representing only a finite number of times (every tenth of a second, for example). In general, humans experience the world analogically. Vision, for example, is an analog experience because we perceive infinitely smooth gradations of shapes and colors.
When used in reference to data storage and transmission, analog format is that in which information is transmitted by modulating a continuous transmission signal, such as amplifying a signal's strength or varying its frequency to add or take away data. For example, telephones take sound vibrations and turn them into electrical vibrations of the same shape before they are transmitted over traditional telephone lines. Radio wave transmissions work in the same way. Computers, which handle data in digital form, require modems to turn signals from digital to analog before transmitting those signals over communication lines such as telephone lines that carry only analog signals. The signals are turned back into digital form (demodulated) at the receiving end so that the computer can process the data in its digital format.
Contrast with digital.

Analog_Display_Services_Interface
ADSI, or Analog Display Services Interface, is a Bellcore standard telephony technology used in POTS or computer PBX services that allows information to be transmitted for display on a display-based telephone connected to an analog loop-start line. The telephone must be a true ADSI-compliant device.

analog_monitor
The traditional type of color display screen that has been used for years in televisions. In reality, all monitors based on CRT technology (that is, all monitors except flat-panel displays) are analog. Some monitors, however, are called digital monitors because they accept digital signals from the video adapter. EGA monitors, for example, must be digital because the EGA standard specifies digital signals. Digital monitors must nevertheless translate the signals into an analog form before displaying images. Some monitors can accept both digital and analog signals. Some analog monitors are also called digital because they support digital controls for adjusting the display.  Most analog monitors are multifrequency monitors, which means that they are designed to accept signals at two or more preset frequency levels.  

analog_roaming
In mobile phone terminology, analog roaming is a feature in digital phones that give users the capability to roam on older analog networks. Because analog networks usually cover a larger distance than digital networks, many are able to use analog roaming in rural areas where digital service may not be available.

analog_television
Preceding digital television (DTV), all televisions encoded pictures as an analog signal by varying signal voltage and radio frequencies. DTV is fast replacing analog TVs as digital broadcasting enables broadcasters to offer television with movie-quality picture and sound. Analog systems are more commonly known as NTSC systems.  A U.S. Senate panel has set an April 7, 2009, as the deadline for television stations to switch entirely from analog to digital broadcasts. Analog televisions will work until all analog broadcasting ceases. Once the transition to complete DTV has taken place, a converter will be required to receive DTV signals and change them to the analog format of these older types of televisions. However, these DTV-to-analog converters will not produce true DTV quality. Analog televisions are now commonly referred to conventional televisions. See also DTV.

analog_to_digital_converter
(n.) An analog-to-digital converter, or ADC as it is more commonly called, is a device that converts analog signals into digital signals. Analog information is transmitted by modulating a continuous transmission signal by amplifying a signal's strength or varying its frequency to add or take away data. Digital information describes any system based on discontinuous data or events. Computers, which handle data in digital form, require analog-to-digital converters to turn signals from analog to digital before it can be read. One example is a modem which turns signals from digital to analog before transmitting those signals over communication lines such as telephone lines that carry only analog signals. The signals are turned back into digital form (demodulated) at the receiving end so that the computer can process the  data in its digital format.

anamorphic_widescreen
In video terminology, anamorphic widescreen is a process that horizontally squeezes a 16:9 image into a 4:3 space. For the signal to appear with correct geometry, the display must either horizontally expand or vertically squish the image. Anamorphic video is also called "Enhanced for Widescreen" on DVD packaging. [Adapted from Home Theater Magazine]

anchor_text
The visible text on a Web page that you click for the hyperlink. Anchor text is an important element of SEO (search engine optimization).
Example: < a href="/" >This is the anchor text < /a> 

android_app
A mobile software application developed for use on devices powered by Google's Android platform.  Android apps are available in the Google Play Store (formerly known as the Android Market), in the Amazon Appstore and on various Android App-focused sites, and the apps can run on Android smartphones, tablets, Google TV and other devices.  As with Apple and its Apple App Store apps, Google encourages developers to program their own Android apps.  While many Android apps can be freely downloaded, premium apps are also available for purchase by users, with revenues for the latter shared between Google (30%) and the software developer (70%).  Additionally, some Android Apps follow the freemium business model, wherein the app developer can derive revenue on free apps via Google's in-app billing capabilities.

android_beam
A feature that enables Google Android-based smartphones, tablets and similar mobile devices to share content with other near-field communication-capable devices by simply touching the devices together and pressing a button on the device sending the content. The Android Beam feature first appeared in the v4.1 “Ice Cream Sandwich” release of Google’s Android mobile operating system, which became available in late 2011.
Android Beam relies on near-field communication (NFC) to “beam,” or transfer, photos, web pages and links, contact details, videos and more between devices.  Android Beam can also be used for swipeless or contactless payments and funds transfers. 

Android_fragmentation
The threat or concern that a proliferation of diverging variants of the Android platform will result in the inability of some devices to properly run apps written with the Android SDK. With a large number of custom versions of the Android platform emerging, the concern is that interoperability will be weakened as a result of the potential for applications built specifically for one variant or device not being able to work with others.
Google has created an Android compatibility program to help quell fears of Android fragmentation and has also deemed the idea of Android fragmentation a "bogeyman" in a recent blog, but concerns about device-specific apps leading to interoperability issues persist nonetheless.
See also  Android platform and  Android SDK.

android_launcher
Launcher is the name given to the part of the Android user interface that lets users customize the home screen (e.g. the phone's desktop), launch mobile apps, make phone calls, and perform other tasks on Android devices (devices that use the Android mobile operating system). Launcher is built into Android, however there are a number of Launchers available for download in the Android Market.
See Tweak Your Android Homescreen with Customized Launchers and Android Codenames to learn about updates for the open source Android mobile operating system. See also Essential Android Security Apps in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

android_live_wallpaper
Introduced in Android 2.1, this is a function that provided users with richer, animated and interactive backgrounds (called live wallpaper) compared to previous versions of the Android mobile operating system that used more traditional and static wallpapers. Android live wallpapers work similar to an Android mobile app because it can access functions of the platform such as OpenGL, GPS, network access and so on. Live wallpapers are designed to offer a better user experience and many different live wallpapers can be downloaded from the Android Market.
See Android Codenames to learn about updates for the open source Android mobile operating system. See also Essential Android Security Apps in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

android_market
The Android Market, or Android Central, is Google's own repository for Android applications. The market offers tens of thousands of mobile apps for Android devices (devices that use the Android mobile operating system), many of which are free to download and use on your Android device.
See Android Codenames to learn about updates for the open source Android mobile operating system. See also Essential Android Security Apps in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

android_mobile_security
Mobile security applications for Google's Android platform help protect Android smartphone and tablet mobile devices from malware threats as well as unauthorized access following accidental loss or theft of the device.
Additional security features frequently offered by Android mobile security apps include securing data on the device, VPN connectivity for protecting data in transit, scanning websites for potential phishing schemes or other fraudulent activity, helping users locate their device if lost or stolen, and more.
Android mobile security applications are available from Google as well as well-known third-party security vendors such as Lookout, Avast, Kaspersky, Symantec and Qihu.

Android_platform
The Android platform is Google Inc.'s open and free software stack that includes an operating system, middleware and also key applications for use on mobile devices, including smartphones. Android is an Open Handset Alliance Project. See "Technology Terms to Know for 2009" in the Did You Know...? section of Webopedia. See also an "Introduction to Mobile Devices" In the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

android_renderscript_compute
Android Renderscript Compute is a computation platform ported to run directly on a mobile device graphics processing unit (GPU). It is included in the latest release of Jelly Bean (see "Android Codename").
Android Renderscript Compute automatically takes advantage of GPU computation resources whenever possible to improve graphics and image processing performance on a supported device.

Android_SDK
A software development kit that enables developers to create applications for the Android platform. The Android SDK includes sample projects with source code, development tools, an emulator, and required libraries to build Android applications. Applications are written using the Java programming language and run on Dalvik, a custom virtual machine designed for embedded use which runs on top of a Linuxkernel.
See also an "Introduction to Mobile Devices" In the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.


android_uri_string
Google Inc.'s Android platform uses URI strings as the basis for requesting data in a content provider (i.e. to retrieve a list of contacts) and for requesting actions (i.e. opening a webpage in a browser). According to the type of use, an Android application can handle specific URI schemes and strings in any way it wants.

angle
In DVD and video production, angle refers to a scene in the video that has been recorded from several different viewpoints.

Anik
A series of Canadian (domestic) geostationary communications satellites. The Anik satellites were launched by Telesat Canada for Canadian television and transmits the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's (CSC) network feeds, in addition to telephone services. The first satellite in the series, ANIK 1, was launched in 1972, followed by Anik A2 in April 1973 and Anik A3 in 1976. The most recent of the Anik fleet, Anik F3, was launched on April 9, 2007, and provides a wide range of broadcasting, business communications, and Internet services to users across North America.  Anik is the Inuit word for "brother".

animated_GIF
A type of GIF image that can be animated by combining several images into a single GIF file. Applications that support the animated GIF standard, GIF89A, cycle through each image. GIF animation doesn't give the same level of control and flexibility as other animation formats but it has become extremely popular because it is supported by nearly all Web browsers. In addition, animated GIF files tend to be quite a bit smaller that other animation files, such as Java applets. 

animator
The individual artists creating the animation. They are the person who decides how a model will move, what a scene looks like, and also what software and tools will be used for production.

anime
The Japanese shortened pronunciation of the English word animation. Anime refers to traditional Japanese cel animation, but is also used to describe those animations which were created by computers as well. In Japan the word is used to describe anything animated, but outside of Japan the term is used to reference specifically those animations which originate in Japan.

Anisotropic_Filtering
In 3D graphics Anisotropic Filtering, abbreviated as AF, is a technique used to improve image quality in computer video games. AF enhances the textures on surfaces that are far away and at high angles (sloped relative to the camera view) so that the projection of the texture appears more like a rectangle or trapezoid than a square. When AF is applied to the sloped texture, the surface does not appear fuzzy to the viewer. Anisotropic Filtering is a feature found on most 3D  video cards today, however card manufacturers do not necessarily use the same process to render AF.

anki
An open source software program that is used as a study tool to help users commit things to memory. Anki allows you to create custom decks of flashcards to use in study sessions.  Anki lets you rate how easy or hard each card is and adapts to that ranking system. Cards you have marked as easy would be shown less frequently than those you have rated as hard. Anki supports images, audio, videos and scientific markup via LaTeX, a typesetting system based on the TeX programming language.

ANNA
Acronym for annotated Ada. ANNA is a high-level programming language that extends Ada with various kinds of specification constructs. The language includes special annotating constructs, or semantic assertions, that lay down axioms about the procedures and other facilities of the Ada program. ANNA is based on first-order logic and includes generalized type constraints, virtual checking functions and behavior specification constructs, from simple assertions to complex algebraic specifications. 

annotation
A comment attached to a particular section of a document. Many computer applications enable you to enter annotations on text documents, spreadsheets, presentations, and other objects. This is a particularly effective way to use computers in a workgroup environment to edit and review work. The creator of a document sends it to reviewers who then mark it up electronically with annotations and return it. The document's creator then reads the annotations and adjusts the document appropriately.  Many modern applications support voice annotations. If the computer is equipped with a microphone, the reviewer can voice his comments orally instead of writing them. These voice annotations are digitized and stored with the document. When a reader of the document selects the annotation icon, the spoken message is played back through the computer's speakers.   

anonoblog
Short for anonymous and  blog, anonoblog is a slang term used to describe a public blog that is written and maintained by an anonymous author, or an author using a pseudonym.  See "The History of Blogging" in the  Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

ANSI
Acronym for the American National Standards Institute. Founded in 1918, ANSI is a voluntary organization composed of over 1,300 members (including all the large computer companies) that creates standards for the computer industry. For example, ANSI C is a version of the C language that has been approved by the ANSI committee. To a large degree, all ANSI C compilers, regardless of which company produces them, should behave similarly.  In addition to programming languages, ANSI sets standards for a wide range of technical areas, from electrical specifications to communications protocols. For example, FDDI, the main set of protocols for sending data over fiber optic cables, is an ANSI standard.   

ANSI_378
Refers to an interoperability standard for fingerprint templates developed by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). The United States government requires all Homeland Security Directive and Personal Identity Verification (PIV) be ANSI 378 compliant.

ANSI_Bomb
Character sequences that reprogram specific keys on the  keyboard. If ANSI.SYS is loaded, some bombs will display colorful messages, or have interesting, but usually unwanted graphical effects. [Source: CA Anti-spam Solutions]

ANSI_Character_Set
)A collection of special characters and associated codes adopted by the ANSI standards organization. The ANSI character set includes many foreign characters, special punctuation, and business symbols.  In Windows environments, you can enter ANSI characters by holding down the Alt key and typing the ANSI code with the numeric keypad. On Macintoshes, you can enter ANSI characters by holding down the Option key and typing a character.  

ANSI_SYS
Pronounced ann-see-dot  -siss, the name of a DOS device driver that makes a monitor conform to the ANSI standard. The ANSI standard specifies a series of escape sequences that cause the monitor to behave in various ways. For example, one escape sequence clears the screen while another causes all subsequent characters to be inverted.  In general, DOS programs do not use the ANSI codes because these codes are slower than the built-in BIOS codes. DOS programs that do use ANSI codes for compatibility with other devices require that you load the ANSI.SYS device driver in the configuration file, CONFIG.SYS.  Windows does not use ANSI.SYS at all. 

answer_only_modem
A modem that can receive messages but cannot send them. Only the most inexpensive modems are answer-only.  

anti_spam
(adj.) The phrase anti spam (or anti-spam)Refers to any software, hardware or process that is used to combat the proliferation of spam or to keep spam from entering a system. For example, a Bayesian filter is an anti spam software application, and the use of opt-in e-mail is an anti spam process.

anti_adware
Anti-adware refers to any software utility that scans your system and removes adware, spyware, keyloggers, trojans, and other malicious code from your computer. Some of these programs are undetectable to anti-virus software and many users now use an anti-adware utility in addition to anti-virus software to protect their system.

anti-malware
Anti-malware refers to software tools and programs designed to identify and prevent malicious software, or malware, from infecting computer systems or electronic devices. Anti-malware tools can also include malware removal capabilities, and the term anti-malware can range from code integrated with other software programs or in the operating system itself to third-party tools that scan for and remove a wide variety of malware variants.
Also spelled as antimalware, anti-malware software is commonly thought of as software tools for desktops and laptops, but anti-malware tools also abound for servers, workstations and mobile devices like smartphones and tablets.
Types of Malware Targeted by Anti-Malware Tools
Types of malware that anti-malware software typically protect systems from include viruses, Trojan horses, worms, spyware and keylogger programs, ransomware, rootkits, bootkits and even adware.

antialiasing
In computer graphics, antialiasing is a software technique for diminishing jaggies - stairstep-like lines that should be smooth. Jaggies occur because the output device, the monitor or printer, doesn't have a high enough resolution to represent a smooth line. Antialiasing reduces the prominence of jaggies by surrounding the stairsteps with intermediate shades of gray (for gray-scaling devices) or color (for color devices). Although this reduces the jagged appearance of the lines, it also makes them fuzzier.
Another method for reducing jaggies is called smoothing, in which the printer changes the size and horizontal alignment of dotsto make curves smoother.
Antialiasing is sometimes called oversampling.

anticipation
In animation, the phrase anticipation is used to describe the over-exaggerated moment of anticipatory motion that precedes an action. For example, if a character were about to throw a ball, the long wind-up and throw sequence of events, which precede the ball leaving the hand, would be considered the 'anticipation.'

AntiExe
A boot sector virus that can infect floppy boot records and hard disk master boot records. AntiExe will infect hard drives only when an attempt to boot from an infected diskette is made. Once the virus has infected the hard drive, all non-write-protected floppies used in the machine will be infected. AntiExe was first discovered in February, 1995.

antistatic_mat
A mat on which you can stand while repairing a computer or adding expansion cards. The mat absorbs static electricity which might otherwise damage electronic components. Another way to eliminate damage caused by static electricity is to wear an antistatic wristband.  Also see Static Electricity and Computers in the Did You Know . . . ? section of Webopedia. 

antivirus_program
A utility that searches a hard disk for viruses and removes any that are found. Most antivirus programs include an auto-update feature that enables the program to download profiles of new viruses so that it can check for the new viruses as soon as they are discovered.


anycast
Communication that takes place over a network between a single sender and the nearest of a group of receivers.  Anycast is used in IPv6 as a method of updating routing tables. One host initiates an update of a router table for a group of hosts, sending the data to the nearest host. That host then sends the message on to its nearest router until all the routing tables in that group are updated.  Compare with multicast and unicast.

AO
On eBay, eBay alternatives, and classified ad Web sites, AO is an abbreviation used to mean all original. This abbreviation is used by the seller to indicate that the item for sale is original with no upgrade, replacement parts, and so on. See also "Online Auction Abbreviations" in the  Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

AOD
Short for Advanced Optical Disc, Blu-ray's competing HD-DVD technology format. AOD and Blu-ray are similar in that they both use 405nm-wavelength blue-violet laser technology, in contrast to the 650nm-wavelength red laser technology used in traditional DVD formats. However, while Blu-ray has a storage capacity of 27GB on a single-layer disc, AOD has a storage capacity of 20GB on a single-layer disc.  AOD was developed jointly by Toshiba and NEC.

AODV
Short for Ad Hoc On-Demand Distance Vector, a routing protocol for ad hoc mobile networks with large numbers of mobile nodes. The protocol's algorithm creates routes between nodes only when the routes are requested by the source nodes, giving the network the flexibility to allow nodes to enter and leave the network at will. Routes remain active only as long as data packets are traveling along the paths from the source to the destination. When the source stops sending packets, the path will time out and close.  AODV supports both unicast and multicast.

AOLese
A slang term used to describe Internet chat abbreviations and other terms used by AOL Internet service subscribers that are specific to the AOL system itself. YGM for "You Got Mail" is an example of AOLese. Others consider any type of chat slang, such as LOL or any 133t_speak.html to be AOLese. See also "Text Messaging Abbreviations" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia for definitions to hundreds of frequently used chat abbreviations. 

AP
Short for Access Point, a hardware device or a computer's software that acts as a communication hub for users of a wireless device to connect to a wired LAN. APs are important for providing heightened wireless security and for extending the physical range of service a wireless user has access to.
Also see infrastructure mode and ad-hoc mode.
Also see the Wireless LAN Standards chart in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

apache_couchdb
Apache CouchDB ("CouchDB") is an open source document-oriented database that is similar to MongoDB. CouchDB lets you store data with JSON documents, access documents using a web browser (via HTTP) and also query, combine and transform documents with JavaScript.

apache_hbase
Apache HBase (HBase) is the Hadoop database. It is a distributed, scalable, big data store. HBase is a sub-project of the Apache Hadoop project and is used to provide real-time read and write access to your big data. According to The Apache Software Foundation, the primary objective of Apache HBase is the hosting of very large tables (billions of rows X millions of columns) atop clusters of commodity hardware.
Also see Apache Hadoop and Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS).
Top 5 Hadoop Related Questions
1. What is Apache Hadoop?  2. What is Hadoop MapReduce?  3. What is HortonWorks?  4. What is Hadoop Distributed File System?  5. What is unstructured data?

apache_openmeetings
An open source Web conferencing project that provides video conferencing, instant messaging, collaborative document editing and similar features. Apache OpenMeetings is based on the OpenLaszlo RIA framework and Red5 media server.
Work on the original OpenMeetings project commenced in 2006, and in December 2011 OpenMeetings was accepted into the Apache Incubator. In December 2012 Apache OpenMeetings became a top-level Apache project, and the most recent release, 2.1, debuted a few months later in April 2013.

apache_pig
Apache Pig is a high-level procedural language platform developed to simplify querying large data sets in Apache Hadoop and MapReduce. Apache Pig features a “Pig Latin” language layer that enables SQL-like queries to be performed on distributed datasets within Hadoop applications.
Pig originated as a Yahoo Research initiative for creating and executing map-reduce jobs on very large data sets.  In 2007 Pig became an open source project of the Apache Software Foundation.

Apache_Portals_Project
Apache Portals is a collaborative software development project that provides freely available commercial quality portal software for a wide variety of platforms and programming languages. The Apache Portals project is managed in cooperation with various individuals worldwide (both independent and company-affiliated experts), who use the Internet to communicate, plan, and develop Portal software and related documentation.

apache-spark
Apache Spark is an open-source engine developed specifically for handling large-scale data processing and analytics. Spark offers the ability to access data in a variety of sources, including Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), OpenStack Swift, Amazon S3 and Cassandra.
Apache Spark is designed to accelerate analytics on Hadoop while providing a complete suite of complementary tools that include a fully-featured machine learning library (MLlib), a graph processing engine (GraphX) and stream processing.
Apache Spark originated at UC Berkeley’s AMPLab in 2009 and was donated in 2013 to the Apache Software Foundation, where it has become the most active project in terms of contributions.

apache_traffic_server
Apache Traffic Server is an open source extensible HTTP/1.1 compliant caching proxy server. Apache Traffic Server boasts caching capabilities that can improve response time while reducing server load and bandwidth needs by caching and reusing frequently requested web pages, images, and web service calls. It also offers "proxying" (see proxy server) to add keep-alive, filter or anonymize content requests, or add load balancing by adding a proxy layer.
The Apache Traffic Server was formerly a commercial product, however, Yahoo! donated it to the Apache Foundation, and it is now an Apache TLP (Top level project).  The version 3.0.0 Apache Traffic Server release (June 2011) can handle more than 200,000 requests per second.

Apache_Web_server
Often referred to as simply Apache, a public-domain open source Web server developed by a loosely-knit group of programmers. The first version of Apache, based on the NCSA httpd Web server, was developed in 1995.
Core development of the Apache Web server is performed by a group of about 20 volunteer programmers, called the Apache Group. However, because the source code is freely available, anyone can adapt the server for specific needs, and there is a large public library of Apache add-ons. In many respects, development of Apache is similar to development of the Linuxoperating system.
The original version of Apache was written for UNIX, but there are now versions that run under OS/2, Windows and other platforms.

aperture_priority
A digital camera setting that allows the user to set the size of the aperture (also called f-stop) and allow the camera to determine the shutter speed for a correctly exposed image.
Other digital camera settings and shooting modes include:


Macro mode to focus on subjects close to the camera lens.
Sports mode to shoot sports and other types of action shots.
Movie mode to capture moving subjects in a video format.
In-camera red-eye fix to auto-correct any incidences red-eye.
Face detection to detect human faces and set the focus and appropriate exposure.
Landscape mode  for taking photos of a scene -- not a single object.
Portrait mode  for taking photos of a single subject.
Night mode  for taking photos in low-light situations or at night time.
Automatic exposure mode  automatically determines the correct exposure for pictures without any user input .

See also "The Digital Camera Picture" in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

Aperture_Size
In computer BIOS settings for Intel desktop boards, Aperture Size is a video configuration option that determines the amount of system memory available for direct access by the graphics device. While Aperture Size options may vary by board model, typical choices for Aperture Size include; 4MB, 8MB, 16MB, 32MB, 128MB, and 256MB. See "BIOS Beep Codes" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. Also see "The System Boot Process Explained" in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

API
API, an abbreviation of application program interface, is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications. The API specifies how software components should interact and APIs are used when programming graphical user interface (GUI) components.  A good API makes it easier to develop a program by providing all the building blocks. A programmer then puts the blocks together.
Types of APIs
There are many different types of APIs for operating systems, applications or for websites. Windows, for example, has many API sets that are used by system hardware and applications — when you copy and paste text from one application to another, it is the API that allows that to work.
Most operating environments, such as MS-Windows, provide an API so that programmers can write applications consistent with the operating environment. Today, APIs are also specified by websites. For example, Amazon or eBay APIs allow developers to use the existing retail infrastructure to create specialized web stores. Third-party software developers also use Web APIs to create software solutions for end-users.

APIPA
Short for Automatic Private IP Addressing, a feature of later Windows operating systems. With APIPA, DHCP clients can automatically self-configure an IP address and subnet mask when a DHCP server isn't available. When a DHCP client boots up, it first looks for a DHCP server in order to obtain an IP address and subnet mask.
If the client is unable to find the information, it uses APIPA to automatically configure itself with an IP address from a range that has been reserved especially for Microsoft. The IP address range is 169.254.0.1 through 169.254.255.254. The client also configures itself with a default class B subnet mask of 255.255.0.0. A client uses the self-configured IP address until a DHCP server becomes available.
The APIPA service also checks regularly for the presence of a DHCP server (every five minutes, according to Microsoft). If it detects a DHCP server on the network, APIPA stops, and the DHCP server replaces the APIPA networking addresses with dynamically assigned addresses.

APL
Short for A Programming Language,a programming language noted for its ability to generate matrixes -- data elements presented in rows and columns -- and its brevity. The language shortens programs by including loops, or repeated functions, within its fundamental instructions. Created in the early 1960s by Ken Inverson, the language once used only a non-standard character set, including some Greek, but now can be expressed with ISO standardized characters. The language is used on both small computers and mainframes. 

APM
Short for Advanced Power Management, an API developed by Intel and Microsoft that allows developers to include power management in BIOSes. APM defines a layer between the hardware and the operating system that effectively shields the programmer from hardware details.

application_performance_management
Tools and processes responsible for monitoring and managing the performance and availability of software applications. Application performance management (APM) tools alert IT staff to disruptions in availability and/or quality to end users when accessing mission-critical applications. Applications monitored by APM tools can include traditional non-connected applications, Web-enabled applications, streaming apps and cloud applications.
In addition to real-time monitoring, many application performance management tools can also prevent problems from occurring by detecting early warning signs of issues and can also help automatically resolve some performance and quality issues.

APNIC
Short for the Asia Pacific Network Information Centre, one of four non-profit organizations that register and administer IP addresses. APNIC serves the Asia Pacific region, which consists of 62 economies.  Also see ARIN, LACNIC and RIPE NCC.

apns-apple-push-notification-service
Apple Push Notification Service (APNS) is a service from Apple that enables a user or service to send push notification messages to Apple iOS and Mac OS X apps. APNS debuted for the Apple iPhone with the release of Apple's iOS 3 update in June 2009.
The Apple Push Notification Service has since been added as an API (application program interface) to the Mac OS X operating system as of the 10.7 "Lion" release. Apple refined its APNS support on Mac OS X in 2012 with the addition of the Notification Center in the 10.8 "Mountain Lion" operating system release.
How the Apple Push Notification Service Works
The Apple Push Notification Service comes into play when software developers first originate notifications in their server software. These servers connect with the APNS through a persistent and secure channel to send the encrypted notifications to their target devices.

apogee
In satellite communications, most satellites orbit the earth in elliptical patterns with the earth not in the exact center of the orbital pattern. When a satellite is at its furthest point from the earth, it is at the apogee of the orbit. When a satellite is at its closest point to the earth, it is at the perigee of the orbit.


APOP
Short for Authenticated Post Office Protocol, it is similar to the POP  protocol except that APOP enables your password to be encrypted while being transmitted over the network. Using POP mail, when you authenticate your  username and password in your e-mail client, your password is sent over the network in plain text. If your e-mail client uses APOP, then the password is encrypted while being transmitted. APOP prevents hackers from seeing your password information with sniffer programs.

app
Short for application. A killer app, for example, is an application that surpasses (i.e., kills) its competitors.  

app_inventor
An open source, Web-based system developed by Google that allowed people to create Android apps without having to know how to code. Instead of writing code, the Android mobile app can be visually designed with App Inventor.
In August 2011, MIT opened its Center for Mobile Learning, to focus on new mobile technology and applications that allow people to study and learn from anywhere. One of the center's first activities is to extend and integrate App Inventor for Android to MIT's research in educational technology.
See Android Codenames to learn about updates for the open source Android mobile operating system. See also Essential Android Security Apps in Webopedia's Quick Reference section.

app_store
Both a generic and specific term, app store ("App Store") in most cases refers to Apple's App Store, an online store for purchasing and downloading software applications and mobile apps for Apple computers and devices.
The term app store is also frequently used for similar online stores that sell mobile apps, including Amazon's Appstore for its Kindle and other Android-powered devices, the Android Market for Android devices, Blackberry’s App World for Blackberry devices and Nokia’s Ovi Store.

Appending_Virus
A virus that inserts a copy of its malicious code at the end of the file. The goal of an appending virus is not to harm the host program, but to modify it to hold the virus code and then be able to run itself.

apple_app_store
The Apple App Store is an online store for purchasing and downloading software applications and mobile apps for Apple computers and devices. The App Store initially debuted as an online app store for mobile devices powered by Apple's iOS mobile operating store such as the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, but it has since expanded to also include a Mac App Store for purchasing applications for Mac OS X personal computers.  The Mac App Store can only be accessed by PCs using Mac OS X Snow Leopard, Mac OS X Lion or a later version of Mac OS X.
The Apple App Store serves as the only way to download native iOS applications without jailbreaking the device, and apps can be purchased and downloaded directly to the device itself or they can be accessed through Apple's iTunes software and then transferred to the iOS device. Apps can also be shared across multiple iOS devices and Mac OS X computers with Apple’s free iCloud service.
There are more than 500,000 apps available on the Apple App Store, which shares the "app store" market with similar offerings like the Android Market and Amazon's Appstore for Android-powered devices, the Blackberry App World for Blackberry devices and the Nokia for Ovi Store.  Software developers can release their own mobile apps for the Apple App Store with the Software Development Kit for iPhone OS.  These apps can be freely downloaded or purchased by users, with revenues for the latter shared between Apple (30 percent) and the software developer (70 percent).

apple-carplay
A system developed by Apple to integrate Apple iPhones with the in-car infotainment entertainment systems provided in the dash of newer automobiles. Apple CarPlay is designed to make it easier and safer for drivers to access information and multimedia content on their smartphones from the car's in-dash system without actually having to touch the phone itself..
Apple's Siri Eyes Free voice technology is heavily integrated with Apple CarPlay to enable drivers to perform tasks such as making phone calls and listening to voicemail, reading incoming messages and notifications, responding to text messages, playing music stored on the iPhone, accessing Satellite navigation and driving directions, and more. In addition to Siri voice commands, CarPlay drivers can also use touchscreen or manual buttons, depending on the car's in-dash interface.
Apple CarPlay and iOS in the Car
Apple CarPlay evolved from the “iOS in the Car” project initiated by Apple in 2013, and the system was officially unveiled in March 2014. Apple CarPlay requires iPhones with the iOS 7.1 or later mobile operating system, and because the system utilizes the Lightning connector for connecting with iPhones, only the iPhone 5, 5S, 5C and later phones are supported by CarPlay.

Apple_Computer
A personal computer company founded in 1976 by Steven Jobs and Steve Wozniak. Throughout the history of personal computing, Apple has been one of the most innovative influences. In fact, some analysts say that the entire evolution of the PC can be viewed as an effort to catch up with the Apple Macintosh.  In addition to inventing new technologies, Apple also has often been the first to bring sophisticated technologies to the personal computer. Apple's innovations include:  Graphical user interface (GUI). First introduced in 1983 on its Lisa computer. Many components of the Macintosh GUI have become de facto standards and can be found in other operating systems, such as Microsoft Windows. Color. The Apple II, introduced in 1977, was the first personal computer to offer color monitors. Built-in networking . In 1985, Apple released a new version of the Macintosh with built-in support for networking (LocalTalk). Plug & play  expansion. In 1987, the Mac II introduced a new expansion bus called NuBus that made it possible to add devices and configure them entirely with software. QuickTime. In 1991, Apple introduced QuickTime, a multi-platform standard for video, sound, and other multimedia applications. Integrated  television. In 1993, Apple released the Macintosh TV, the first personal computer with built-in television and stereo CD. RISC. In 1994, Apple introduced the Power Mac, based on the PowerPC RISC microprocessor.     

apple_ios
Apple's mobile operating system for its iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Apple TV and similar devices. iOS was originally called the iPhone OS but was renamed in 2010 to reflect the operating system’s evolving support for additional Apple devices.
Apple iOS is currently in v9.x release, with iOS 9 first being unveiled in 2015 in conjunction with the release of the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus smartphones.
Features and Enhancements in Newer Releases of Apple iOS
Recent versions of iOS have introduced a number of powerful new features to the mobile OS, most notably Apple's Siri advanced voice recognition application, "Proactive," a contextual, predictive personal assistant that's tied in with Siri to deliver personalized information based on a user's preferences, habits and location, a built-in instant messaging client (iMessage), integrated support for Apple's iCloud personal cloud storage service, iTunes Radio, and AirDrop support.

Apple_key
A special key on Macintosh computers labeled with the Apple logo. On all but the oldest Apple computers, the Apple key serves as the Command key.  

alac
Apple Lossless Audio Codec (ALAC) is an audio codec developed by Apple for playback on iTunes and QuickTime and on Apple iOS devices, including the iPhone, iPad and iPods. The ALAC data compression method is "lossless," meaning it reduces the size of audio files with no loss of information. When decoded, the ALAC stream is identical to the original uncompressed audio file, bit-for-bit. The Apple Lossless Audio Codec sources are available under the Apache license.
The Apple Lossless Audio Codec is a similar to other lossless codecs including the Free Lossless Audio Codec (FLAC).
See also Common Audio Formats in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

apple-pay
Apple Pay is a mobile payments service and digital wallet app that utilizes Near Field Communication (NFC) to initiate secure payment transactions between contactless payment terminals and Apple iOS devices like the iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus and Apple Watch.
Apple announced Apple Pay on September 12th along with the iPhone 6 and Apple Watch, but the service wouldn't be available for actual use by customers until later in October. Upon its release, Apple Pay is expected to work with most major credit cards, including Visa, Mastercard and American Express, and will be accepted at more than 220,000 locations.
How to Use Apple Pay
Owners of Apple devices that support Apple Pay can use the service by first adding one or more credit or debit cards to their device. The device can use its iSight camera to capture the card's information and add it to the Passbook app, or the card information can be entered manually.

Apple_Safari
Apple Safari is a Web browser available for the Macintosh and Windows operating systems as well as the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad.  Safari has been designed based on the premise that the most useful browser is one that "gets out of your way and lets you simply enjoy the Web."
At the heart of Apple's Safari browser is the WebKit engine, which is responsible for functions like displaying graphics, rendering fonts, running Javascript and determining page layout.  Future versions of Safari are expected to use Apple's WebKit2 engine, which features a split process model built directly into the framework that enables Web browser processes to run as separate processes in the operating system for improved stability and security.
Safari currently occupies the fourth position in the browser market behind Microsoft's  Internet Explorer,  Mozilla Firefox and  Google Chrome.

apple-watch
The Apple Watch is a smartwatch that operates as a small wearable computing device worn on a user's wrist. The Apple Watch was officially announced on September 9th, 2014, with availability of the new device expected in early 2015.
Pricing for the Apple Watch will start at $349. While most analysts expected the device to be released under the Apple iWatch moniker, Apple surprised many by deviating from the "i" pattern of naming its new devices like the iPod, iPhone and iPad.
How Does the Apple Watch Work?
The Apple Watch is designed to pair, or connect, with another Apple iOS device like the iPhone to push Apple Watch-specific content to the device. In fact, users will need to have an iPhone 5 or later connected to the smartwatch in order to access Apple Watch's full set of features.

apple-watchos
Apple WatchOS is the company's operating system developed to power Apple Watch smartwatch devices. WatchOS is based on Apple's iOS mobile operating system that powers iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices.
The WatchOS made its debut on April 24, 2015, when the Apple Watch was officially released to the public. An API called WatchKit was also released for developers to create WatchOS apps for the Apple Watch.
Apple Releases the WatchOS 2 Update
Apple introduced a major update to the WatchOS in September 2015 in the form of WatchOS 2. Apple WatchOS 2 delivers new features and functionality for Apple Watch devices, including more native apps with access to the smartwatch's sensors and controls like the Taptic Engine, Digital Crown and more.

apple_x_san
A SAN file system for MAC OS X. Apple X SAN enables multiple Mac desktops and Xserve systems to share RAID storage volumes over a high-speed Fibre Channel network.

AppleScript
A scripting language developed by Apple Computer that is integrated into the MacOS starting with System 7.5. AppleScript provides an easy way to automate common tasks. AppleScript is also powerful enough to automate complex tasks and to customize the way applications behave.  AppleScript can be extended through Scripting Additions called OSAX. These add-on modules provide special resources and commands not available in the basic language. 

applet
A program designed to be executed from within another application. Unlike an application, applets cannot be executed directly from the operating system. With the growing popularity of OLE(object linking and embedding), applets are becoming more prevalent. A well-designed applet can be invoked from many different applications.
Web browsers, which are often equipped with Java virtual machines, can interpret applets from Web servers. Because applets are small in files size, cross-platform compatible, and highly secure (can't be used to access users' hard drives), they are ideal for small Internet applications accessible from a browser.


applet_class_loader
See sandbox.

Applicability_Statement_2
Applicability Statement 2 (AS2) is a specification for data exchange, to perform the task of sending and receiving data via a secure connection. It works as a kind of  "envelope,"  in which data is embedded, so that it is possible to send it using the HTTP-protocol. It is a quick and direct transfer, without using a mailbox. AS2 is able to transmit every kind of document and it's suited especially for the traditional EDI transactions. The data to be sent will be prepared by internal systems and will be transferred via an AS2 communication software.  [Source: Adapted from AS2 (Applicability Statement 2): Description and Parameter, EDI-AKH]

application
An application is any program, or group of programs, that is designed for the end user. Application software can be divided into two general classes: systems software and applications software. Applications software (also called end-user programs) include such things as database programs, word processors, Web browsers and spreadsheets.
Types of Application Software
Application software can be divided into two general classes: systems software and applications software. Applications software (also called end-user programs) include such things as database programs, word processors, Web browsers and spreadsheets.
Figuratively speaking, applications software sits on top of systems software because it is unable to run without the operating system and system utilities.

application_domain
The logical and physical boundary created around every .NET application by the Common Language Runtime (CLR). The CLR can allow multiple .NET applications to be run in a single process by loading them into separate application domains. The CLR isolates each application domain from all other application domains and prevents the configuration, security, or stability of a running .NET applications from affecting other applications. Objects can only be moved between application domains by the use of remoting.

application_gateway
Also known as application proxy or application-level proxy, an application gateway is an application program that runs on a firewall system between two networks. When a client program establishes a connection to a destination service, it connects to an application gateway, or proxy. The client then negotiates with the proxy server in order to communicate with the destination service. In effect, the proxy establishes the connection with the destination behind the firewall and acts on behalf of the client, hiding and protecting individual computers on the network behind the firewall. This creates two connections: one between the client and the proxy server and one between the proxy server and the destination. Once connected, the proxy makes all packet-forwarding decisions. Since all communication is conducted through the proxy server, computers behind the firewall are protected.  While this is considered a highly secure method of firewall protection, application gateways require great memory and processor resources compared to other firewall technologies, such as stateful inspection.

Application_Infrastructure_Provider
AIP is short for application infrastructure provider.
A hosting provider that offers a full set of infrastructure services for hosting online applications, or more simply, an ASP for ASPs.

Application_Lifecycle_Management
Abbreviated as ALM, Application Lifecycle Management refers to the capability to integrate, coordinate and manage the different phases of the software delivery process. From development to deployment, ALM is a set of pre-defined process and tools that include definition, design, development, testing, deployment and management. Throughout the ALM process, each of these steps are closely monitored and controlled.

application_log
The application log file contains events that are logged by the applications used on a computer system. Events that are written to the application log are determined by the developers of the software program, not the operating system.

application_proxy
See application gateway.

application_server
Also called an appserver, an application server is a program that handles all application operations between users and an organization's backend business applications or databases.
An application server is typically used for complex transaction-based applications. To support high-end needs, an application server has to have built-in redundancy, monitor for high-availability, high-performance distributed application services and support for complex database access.
See the Server Types page in the quick reference section of Webopedia for a comparison of server types. 

application_service_provider
Abbreviated as ASP, a third-party entity that manages and distributes software-based services and solutions to customers across a wide area network from a central data center.
In essence, ASPs are a way for companies to outsource some or almost all aspects of their information technology needs. They may be commercial ventures that cater to customers, or not-for-profit or government organizations, providing service and support to end users.
According to ASPnews.com, ASPs are broken down into five subcategories:

Application_Session_Controller
Abbreviated as ASC, the Application Session Controller network element resides at the application layer and sits between the application layer and the core network to provide and manage connectivity to the evolving telecom network. The ASC incorporates a number of open standard APIs, plus the signaling, media between disparate networks that converged. See session controller. See also Session Border Controller.

application_sharing
A feature of many videoconferencing applications that enables the conference participants to simultaneously run the same application. The application itself resides on only one of the machines connected to the conference.
 
 

application_topology_mapping
A subset of network topology and network mapping software, application topology mapping software tools are designed to map or diagram the layout of mission-critical applications in an enterprise, how different apps are connected to each other, how they can be accessed by various computers and networks, and how they are currently performing in terms of efficiency and availability.  The applications mapped by these tools can range from non-connected applications to Web-enabled applications, streaming apps and even cloud applications.
Application topology mapping tools also typically include application discovery and dependency mapping capabilities as well as application performance management (APM) features for alerting IT staff to disruptions in availability and/or quality to end users.  Many application topology mapping software tools also combine sophisticated network mapping to provide real-time views and performance monitoring of all network devices, services, applications, connections and traffic patterns on one or more networks. 

appserver
Also called an appserver, an application server is a program that handles all application operations between users and an organization's backend business applications or databases.
An application server is typically used for complex transaction-based applications. To support high-end needs, an application server has to have built-in redundancy, monitor for high-availability, high-performance distributed application services and support for complex database access.
See the Server Types page in the quick reference section of Webopedia for a comparison of server types. 

apt
A Debian tool used to manage packages. When a user installs a package on a system, it also searches for and then installs or upgrades all the necessary dependant packages to make the package work. The actual command is apt-get.

advanced_persistent_threats_apts
An advanced persistent threat (APT) is a  targeted attack by cyber criminals or in some cases government institutions that uses multiple phases to first stealthily penetrate a network while avoiding detection and then obtain valuable information over an extended period of time. Advanced persistent threats are highly complex threats that differ from traditional threats in that they are targeted, persistent, evasive and extremely advanced.


apt_get
A Debian tool used to manage packages. When a user installs a package on a system, it also searches for and then installs or upgrades all the necessary dependant packages to make the package work. The actual command is apt-get.

AR
Abbreviated as AR, Augmented Reality is a type of virtual reality that aims to duplicate the world's environment in a computer. An augmented reality system generates a composite view for the user that is the combination of the real scene viewed by the user and a virtual scene generated by the computer that augments the scene with additional information. The virtual scene generated by the computer is designed to enhance the user's sensory perception of the virtual world they are seeing or interacting with. The goal of Augmented Reality is to create a system in which the user cannot tell the difference between the real world and the virtual augmentation of it. Today Augmented Reality is used in entertainment, military training, engineering design, robotics, manufacturing and other industries.


arbitrated_loop
A Fibre Channel standard defining a loop topology where up to 126  devices can communicate with one another using an arbitrated access protocol.

ARC
To compress a file using the ARC format. The ARC data compression format, created by Systems Enhancement Associates, is particularly popular among bulletin board systems (BBSs). Another common format is ZIP.  Files that have been compressed with an ARC utility end with a.ARC extension. To decompress them, you need a utility called ARC-E (stands for arc-extract).   

ARccOS
ARccOS is a digital copy protection system developed by Sony and is available for some DVD-Video. is designed to prevent the creating of unauthorized DVD copies in high-quality. Each ARccOS guarded DVD-Video can be equipped with a different encryption code. The digital signature protects the DVD-Video by preventing 1:1 duplication, ripping, recompression and unauthorized mass replication.

architecture
(n.) A design. The term architecture can refer to either hardware or software, or to a combination of hardware and software. The architecture of a system always defines its broad outlines, and may define precise mechanisms as well.  An open architecture allows the system to be connected easily to devices and programs made by other manufacturers. Open architectures use off-the-shelf components and conform to approved standards. A system with a closed architecture, on the other hand, is one whose design is proprietary, making it difficult to connect the system to other systems. Also see a diagram of n-tier application architecture in the quick reference section of Webopedia.  

architecture_of_participation
A phrase coined by Tim O'Reilly that is used to describe the nature of systems that are designed for user contribution. Architecture of Participation is a Web 2.0 concept in which a community of users contributes to the content or to the design and development process.

archival_backup
A type of backup in which all files are copied to a backup storage device. Archival backups are also called full backup. Contrast with incremental backups, in which only modified files are copied. 

archive
(v.) (1) To copy files to a long-term storage medium for backup. Large computer systems often have two layers of backup, the first of which is a disk drive. Periodically, the computer operator will archive files on the disk to a second storage device, usually a tape drive.  On smaller systems, archiving is synonymous with backing up.  (2) To compress a file.  (n.) (1) A disk, tape, or directory that contains files that have been backed up.  (2) A file that contains one or more files in a compressed format.  (adj.) In DOS systems, the archive attribute  marks files that have been modified since the last backup.   

archived_topics
In online forums and other online discussion spaces posts and conversations that are inactive or have been closed to new messages are often archived on the service. Users can still read these messages but they will be unable to reply to them. When using chat services, the closed chat discussions are called transcripts rather than archived.

ARCnet
Short for Attached Resource Computer network, ARCnet is one of the oldest, simplest, and least expensive types of local-area network. ARCnet was introduced by Datapoint Corporation in 1977. It uses a token-ring architecture, supports data rates of 2.5 Mbps, and connects up to 255 computers. A special advantage of ARCnet is that it permits various types of transmission media -- twisted-pair wire, coaxial cable, and fiber optic cable -- to be mixed on the same network.  A new specification, called ARCnet Plus, will support data rates of 20 Mbps. 

area_chart
A type of presentation graphic that emphasizes a change in values by filling in the portion of the graph beneath the line connecting various data points.  

areal_density
Also called bit density.The amount of data that can be packed onto a storage medium. Areal densities are generally measured in gigabits per square inch. The term is useful for comparing different types of media, such as magnetic disks and optical disks. Current magnetic and optical disks have areal densities of several gigabits per square inch. 

argument
In programming, a value that you pass to a routine. For example, if SQRT is a routine that returns the square root of a value, then SQRT(25) would return the value 5. The value 25 is the argument.  Argument is often used synonymously with parameter, although parameter can also mean any value that can be changed. In addition, some programming languages make a distinction between arguments, which are passed in only one direction, and parameters, which can be passed back and forth, but this distinction is by no means universal.  An argument can also be an option to a command, in which case it is often called a command-line argument.   

ARIN
Acronym for the American Registry for Internet Numbers. ARIN, founded in 1997, is a non-profit organization that registers and administers IP numbers for North America, a portion of the Caribbean and sub-Saharan Africa. ARIN is one of four regional Internet registries.  Also see RIPE NCC, LACNIC and APNIC.

arithmetic_expression
An expression that represents a numeric value. Other types of expressions can represent character or Boolean values.   

arity
In programming it is the number of arguments a function or operator takes. In some languages functions may have variable arity that sometimes means their last or only argument is actually a list of arguments.

arm_processors
ARM processors are a family of 32-bit microprocessors developed by Advanced RISC Machines, Ltd. in the 1980s. Today ARM processors power a wide variety of electronic devices, including mobile phones, tablets, multimedia players and more. 
ARM processors are based on a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) architecture, and while they do share the low-end market with processors from AMD and Intel, they aren't designed to compete with these companies' higher-end processors.

Armored_Virus
A type of virus that has been designed to thwart attempts by analysts from examining its code by using various methods to make tracing, disassembling and reverse engineering more difficult. An Armored Virus may also protect itself from antivirus programs, making it more difficult to trace. To do this, the Armored Virus attempts to trick the antivirus program into believing its location is somewhere other than where it really is on the system.

ARP
Short for Address Resolution Protocol, a network layer protocol used to convert an IP address into a physical address (called a DLC address), such as an Ethernet address. A host wishing to obtain a physical address broadcastsan ARP request onto the TCP/IP network. The host on the network that has the IP address in the request then replies with its physical hardware address.
There is also Reverse ARP (RARP)which can be used by a host to discover its IP address. In this case, the host broadcasts its physical address and a RARP server replies with the host's IP address.


ARP_spoofing
(n.) Also referred to as ARP poison routing (APR) or ARP cache poisoning, a method of attacking an Ethernet LAN by updating the target computer's ARP cache with both a forged ARP request and reply packets in an effort to change the Layer 2 Ethernet MAC address (i.e., the address of the network card) to one that the attacker can monitor. Because the ARP replies have been forged, the target computer sends frames that were meant for the original destination to the attacker's computer first so the frames can be read. A successful APR attempt is invisible to the user.

ARPANET
The precursor to the Internet, ARPANET was a large wide-area network created by the United States Defense Advanced Research Project Agency (ARPA). Established in 1969, ARPANET served as a testbed for new networking technologies, linking many universities and research centers. The first two nodes that formed the ARPANET were UCLA and the Stanford Research Institute, followed shortly thereafter by the University of Utah.


ARPU
Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is a financial performance benchmark in the telecom industry that measures the average monthly revenue generated per customer. Originally used by telephone carriers, the term has been adapted to other telecom industries and is now used by carriers providing services such as Internet connection, cable services, cellphone, pager, VoIP services and so on.

array
In programming, a series of objects all of which are the same size and type. Each object in an array is called an array element. For example, you could have an array of integers or an array of characters or an array of anything that has a defined data type. The important characteristics of an array are:

Each element has the same data type (although they may have different values).


The entire array is stored contiguously in memory (that is, there are no gaps between elements).

Arrays can have more than one dimension. A one-dimensional array is called a vector ; a two-dimensional array is called a matrix.


array_formula
In spreadsheets an array  formula is a formula that will perform multiple calculations on one or more sets of values. The array formula will return a single result or multiple results. In Microsoft Excel an array formula an array formula is enclosed between braces: { }. See also formula.

array_processor
Also called a vector processor. A microprocessor that executes one instruction at a time but on an array or table of data at the same time rather than on single data elements.

arrow_keys
Most computer keyboards contain four arrow keys for moving the cursor or insertion point right, left, up, or down. When combined with the Shift, Function, Control, or Alt keys (on PCs), the arrow keys can have different meanings. For example, pressing Shift +Up-arrow might move the cursor or pointer up an entire page. On Macintoshes, the arrow keys can be combined with the Shift, Option, and Command keys.  The exact manner in which the arrow keys function depends on which program is running. Some programs ignore them.  The arrow keys are also called cursor control keys.   

AS
Acronym for Autonomous System An Autonomous System (AS) is a group of networks under mutual administration that share the same routing methodology. An AS uses an internal  gateway protocol and common metrics to route packets within the AS and uses an external gateway protocol to route packets to other Autonomous Systems.

AS_400
Short for Application System/400, a line of IBM  minicomputers introduced in 1988. The AS/400 family included 6 processor models, double the performance of the System/38 and five times that of the System/36. More than 2,500 applications were made available, along with support, education and follow-on products. Learn more in this IBM history.

Image Source: IBM AS/400(IBM Archives)

ASAP
In chat abbreviations ASAP is short for as soon as possible. Chat abbreviations are commonly used in Internet and online communications mediums such as e-mail, IRC, instant messaging, or through SMS. See also Text Messaging Abbreviations in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia for definitions of hundreds of instant messaging, SMS and chat abbreviations, plus a guide to smiley faces and emoticons."

ascender
In typography, the portion of a lowercase letter that rises above the main body of the letter (that is, above the height of a lowercase x). For example, the letter t's ascender is the part of the vertical line above the horizontal line. 

ASCII
Acronym for the American Standard Code for Information Interchange. Pronounced ask-ee, ASCII is a code for representing English characters as numbers, with each letter assigned a number from 0 to 127. For example, the ASCII code for uppercase M is 77. Most computers use ASCII codes to represent text, which makes it possible to transfer datafrom one computer to another.
For a list of commonly used characters and their ASCII equivalents, refer to the ASCII page in the Quick Reference section.
Text files stored in ASCII format are sometimes called ASCII files. Text editors and word processors are usually capable of storing data in ASCII format, although ASCII format is not always the default storage format. Most data files, particularly if they contain numeric data, are not stored in ASCII format. Executable programsare never stored in ASCII format.

ASCII_file
A text file in which each byte represents one character according to the ASCII code. Contrast with a binary file, in which there is no one-to-one mapping between bytes and characters. Files that have been formatted with a word processor must be stored and transmitted as binary files to preserve the formatting. ASCII files are sometimes called plain text  files.


ASD_Agent
Short for Automatic Skip Driver Agent, a utility in the Windows 98 and Me operating systems that monitors the loading of hardware drivers on a system and signals the user when there is a failure in one or more of the drivers that will prevent successful operation of the system. ASD Agent will automatically disable problematic device drivers in order to ensure a successful startup, and the utility bypasses those drivers the next time the system boots unless the user indicates that the problematic driver be loaded at the next startup. Windows will automatically record the devices it disables in the Asd.log file.

ASF
Short for Advanced Streaming Format, a streaming multimedia file format developed by Microsoft.

ashwood_architecture_multicore_memory
Ashwood architecture is a multi-core memory system that works by integrating smart controller circuitry next to the memory array on a single chip, providing parallel access to the array for hundreds of concurrent processes, thereby increasing throughput and lowering average access time.
Ashwood architecture was developed by cryptographer Joseph Ashwood, who claims his design "borrows extensively from today's modern multi-core CPUs and shares some features with Fibre Channel." (source)
According to Ashwood, his architecture provides parallel access to bit cells on memory chips, breaking the serial bottleneck that is strangling non-volatile storage media like flash, with an architecture that can be applied to any memory chip bit cell.

ASIC
Pronounced ay-sik, and short for Application-Specific Integrated Circuit, a chip designed for a particular application (as opposed to the integrated circuits that control functions such as RAMin a PC). ASICs are built by connecting existing circuit building blocks in new ways. Since the building blocks already exist in a library, it is much easier to produce a new ASIC than to design a new chip from scratch.
ASICs are commonly used in automotive computers to control the functions of the vehicle and in PDAs.

ASIX_Electronics_Corporation
The corporate name of a  fabless semiconductor supplier with focus on networking, communication and connectivity applications. ASIX Electronics develops a number of computer networking controllers, including embedded networking solutions for Fast Ethernet and  Gigabit Ethernet. The company was founded in May 1995 in Hsinchu Science Park, Taiwan.

ASP
(1) See application service provider.  (2) See Active Server Pages. (3)Short for  Association of SharewareProfessionals.

ASP_Aggregator
A company that combines and offers for distribution a number of ASP services or suite of products, usually from a variety of partners.

ASP_NET
A Microsoft server-side Web technology. ASP.NET takes an object-oriented programming approach to Web page execution. Every element in an ASP.NET page is treated as an object and run on the server. An ASP.NET page gets compiled into an intermediate language by a .NET Common Language Runtime-compliant compiler. Then a JIT compiler turns the intermediate code to native machine code, and that machine code is eventually run on the processor. Because the code is run straight from the processor, pages load much faster than classic ASP pages, where embedded VBScript or JScript had to be continuously interpreted and cached.
ASP.NET is used to create Web pages and Web services and is an integral part of Microsoft's .NET vision.

aspect_ratio
In computer graphics, the relative horizontal and vertical sizes. For example, if a graphic has an aspect ratio of 2:1, it means that the width is twice as large as the height. When resizing graphics, it is important to maintain the aspect ratio to avoid stretching the graphic out of proportion.
The term is also used to describe the dimensions of a display resolution. For example, a resolution of 800x600 has an aspect ratio of 4:3.


aspect_oriented_programming
Aspect-oriented programming, or AOP, complements object-oriented programming by allowing the developer to dynamically modify the static object-oriented model to create a system that can grow to meet new requirements, allowing an application to adopt new characteristics as it develops. *AOP provides a solution for abstracting cross-cutting code that spans object hierarchies without functional relevance to the code it spans. Instead of embedding cross-cutting code in classes, AOP allows you to abstract the cross-cutting code into a separate module (known as an aspect) and then apply the code dynamically where it is needed. You achieve dynamic application of the cross-cutting code by defining specific places (known as pointcuts) in your object model where cross-cutting code should be applied. At runtime or compile time, depending on your AOP framework, cross-cutting code is injected at the specified pointcuts. Essentially, AOP allows you to introduce new functionality into objects without the objects' needing to have any knowledge of that introduction. *[Source:  Oracle technology Network]

aspect_oriented_software_development
Aspect-oriented software development (AOSD) is a new approach to software development that addresses limitations inherent in other approaches, including object-oriented programming. AOSD aims to address crosscutting concerns by providing means for systematic identification, separation, representation and composition. Crosscutting concerns are encapsulated in separate modules, known as aspects, so that localization can be promoted. This results in better support for modularization hence reducing development, maintenance and evolution costs.[Source: Early Aspects]

AspectC_plus_plus
An aspect-oriented extension to the C++ programming language.

AspectJ
An aspect-oriented extension to the Java programming language.

aspherical_surface
A lens surface with more than one radius of curvature (i.e., the surface does not form part of a sphere). The aspherical elements of a lens help compensate for many lens aberrations common in simpler lens designs. Aspherical elements are particularly important for wide-angle lenses, since they are prone to distortion. See "A Quick Guide to Digital Cameras" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. See also Megapixel.net for news, reviews and a active community for digital camera and photography enthusiasts.

ASPI
Short for Advanced SCSI Programming Interface, an interface specification developed by Adaptec, Inc. for sending commands to a SCSI host adapter. ASPI has become a de facto standard that enables programmers to develop applications and drivers that work with all ASPI-compatible SCSI adapters. 

ASPIC
The Application Service Provider Industry Consortium (ASP Industry Consortium) is the global advocacy group promoting the application service provider industry by sponsoring research and articulating the strategic and measurable benefits of this delivery model. The ASP Industry Consortium was formed in May 1999 by 25 leading technology companies. In 2001, the ASPIC merged into CompTIA and continues its mission within that organization.  See also CompTIA.

assembler
A program that translates programs from assembly language to machine language.  

assembly
All of the files that comprise an application, including the resource, security management, versioning, sharing and deployment information. An assembly may appear as a single DLL or EXE file, or as multiple files, and is roughly the equivalent of a COM module.

assembly_language
)A programming language that is once removed from a computer's  machine language. Machine languages consist entirely of numbers and are almost impossible for humans to read and write. Assembly languages have the same structure and set of commands as machine languages, but they enable a programmer to use namesinstead of numbers.
Each type of CPU has its own machine language and assembly language, so an assembly language program written for one type of CPU won't run on another. In the early days of programming, all programs were written in assembly language. Now, most programs are written in a high-level language such as FORTRAN or C. Programmers still use assembly language when speed is essential or when they need to perform an operation that isn't possible in a high-level language.


assign
To give a value to a variable. In programming, you assign a value to a variable with a special symbol called an assignment operator. In many languages, the assignment operator is the equal sign (=). For example, the following C language statement assigns the value 5 to the variable x:  x = 5  Such a statement is called an assignment statement.   

associate
(1) To link a certain type of file to a specific application. In MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows environments, the file's type is specified by its three-character extension. For example, the.DOC extension identifies Microsoft Word documents. Once a file type has been associated with an application, selecting any file of that type automatically starts its associated application and loads the selected file.   (2) Synonymous with affiliate.

associate_program
Synonymous with affiliate program.

Association_of_Shareware_Professionals
The Association of Shareware Professionals (ASP) is a group of professionals dedicated to the advancement of shareware software as an alternative to conventional retail software.

assortment_intelligence
In electronic commerce (ecommerce) terminology, assortment intelligence refers to a set of tools and software used to help online retailers track a competitor's inventory and product supply. The software, in real-time, uses artificial intelligence, data-mining, and image-recognition algorithms allowing retailers to view, compare and analyze the differences between inventory.
Assortment intelligence reporting tools can then help a retailer determine what products competitors have -- and do well on -- and decide if they should add these products to an existing catalog.
Compare with Assortment Optimization
Assortment intelligence may also be referred to as assortment optimization; however, the focus of optimization is to ensure a retailer finds the optimal set of products to be carried and the correct levels of inventory for each product.

astroturfing
A slang term used to mean "artificial" blog buzz. In the blogosphere people may blog about a new product, which in turn prompts others to blog the product's message. When the original blog(s) have been started by a PR company, it is called astroturfing.

ASUS_PEG_link_mode
Short for PCI Express Graphics, PEG link mode is a patented ASUS motherboard technology that automatically tunes graphics card performance - in layman's terms it is a graphics card overclocking utility that is built into the ASUS BIOS. Under PEG Link, there are five settings for this unique function: auto, slow, normal, fast and faster. The default setting for PEG link mode is auto.  See "What You Need to Know About Motherboards" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

ASX
Short for ASF Streaming Redirector file, a Windows Media container file. ASX is an XML redirector file for ASF. ASX files are metafiles, i.e., they provide information about ASF media files, including descriptions of multimedia content. When a browser links to an ASX file, the ASX file in turn links to an ASF file on a server.

asymmetric_digital_subscriber_line
See ADSL. 

asynchronous
)Not synchronized; that is, not occurring at predetermined or regular intervals. The term asynchronous is usually used to describe communications in which data can be transmitted intermittently rather than in a steady stream. For example, a telephone conversation is asynchronous because both parties can talk whenever they like. If the communication were synchronous, each party would be required to wait a specified interval before speaking.
The difficulty with asynchronous communications is that the receiver must have a way to distinguish between valid data and noise. In computer communications, this is usually accomplished through a special start bit and stop bit at the beginning and end of each piece of data. For this reason, asynchronous communication is sometimes called start-stop transmission.
Most communications between computers and devicesare asynchronous.

asynchronous_messaging
Asynchronous messaging describes communications that takes place between two applications or systems, where the system places a message in a message queue (called an Event Queue in enterprise messaging systems) and does not need to wait for a reply to continue processing. Contrast with synchronous messaging.

asynchronous_replication
A technology used in server and network storage. Once data has been written to the primary storage site, new writes to that site can be accepted, without having to wait for the secondary or remote storage site to also finish its writes. The downside to asynchronous replication is the possibility of data loss if the primary site should happen to fail before the data has been written to the secondary site.

AT
(1) Short for advanced technology, the AT is an IBM PC model introduced in 1984. It includes an Intel 80286 microprocessor, a 1.2MB floppy drive, and an 84-key AT keyboard.  Today, the term is used more generally to refer to any PC with an 80286 processor.  Also see  From AT to BTX: Motherboard Form Factors  in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section. (2) See @ sign. (3) Short for assistive technology.

AT_bus
The expansion bus on the IBM PC/AT and compatible computers. The bus is the collection of wires and electronic components that connect all device controllers and add-in cards. The controllers are the components that attach to peripheral devices. The bus, therefore, is the main highway for all data moving in and out of the computer.  The AT bus, which runs at 8 megahertz and has a 16-bit data path, is the de facto standard for PCs. Because all IBM PCs (until the high-end PS/2 models) had an AT bus, it has been possible for manufacturers to produce expansion boards that will work with any PC.  The AT bus is sometimes referred to as the ISA bus, which stands for Industry Standard Architecture. However, ISA also includes the XT bus, which is an 8-bit version of the AT bus.  As processors have become more powerful, and applications more demanding, the AT bus has turned out to be the chief bottleneck in PCs. In response, IBM introduced the Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) in 1987. However, MCA was not accepted by the computer industry because it was not backward compatible with the AT-bus, so IBM has been forced to drop it.  A more successful alternative to the AT bus is the Extended Industry Standard Architecture  (EISA  ), a high-speed 32-bit bus architecture developed by a group of IBM's competitors. Unlike MCA, EISA is backward compatible with the AT bus, so a computer equipped with an EISA bus can accept AT or EISA expansion boards.  While EISA has had limited success, its speeds are still insufficient for modern graphical applications. The most common solution to bypassing the AT-bus bottleneck is to include a local bus on the motherboard. A local bus communicates directly with the processor rather than using the standard computer bus. Currently, there are two competing standards for local buses: VESA local bus (VL-bus), promoted by the VESA standards group, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), designed and promoted by Intel.  See also  "Understanding PC Buses" in the Did You Know...? section of Webopedia.

AT_command_set
Pronounced ay-tee command set, the de facto standard language for controlling modems. The AT command set was developed by Hayes and is recognized by virtually all personal computer modems.  

AT_keyboard
An 84-key keyboard introduced with the PC /AT. It was later replaced with the 101-key Enhanced Keyboard.   

ATA
(1) Short for Advanced Technology Attachment, a disk drive implementation that integrates the controller on the disk drive itself. There are several versions of ATA, all developed by the Small Form Factor (SFF) Committee:

ATA: Known also as IDE, supports one or two hard drives, a 16-bit interface and PIO modes 0, 1 and 2.
ATA-2: Supports faster PIO modes (3 and 4) and multiword DMA modes (1 and 2). Also supports logical block addressing (LBA) and block transfers. ATA-2 is marketed as Fast ATA and Enhanced IDE (EIDE).
ATA-3:Minor revision to ATA-2.
Ultra-ATA: Also called Ultra-DMA, ATA-33, and DMA-33,supports multiword DMA mode 3 running at 33 MBps.
ATA/66:A version of ATA proposed by Quantum Corporation, and supported by Intel, that doubles ATA's throughput to 66 MBps.
ATA/100: An updated version of ATA/66 that increases data transfer rates to 100 MBps.

ATA also is called Parallel ATA. Contrast with Serial ATA.
(2) Short for Analog Telephone Adapter

ATAPI
Short for AT Attachment Packet Interface, an extension to EIDE (also called ATA-2) that enables the interface to support CD-ROM players and tape drives.


ATM
Short for Asynchronous Transfer Mode, a network technology based on transferring data in cells or packets of a fixed size. The cell used with ATM is relatively small compared to units used with older technologies. The small, constant cell size allows ATM equipment to transmit video, audio, and computer data over the same network, and assure that no single type of data hogs the line.
Some people think that ATM holds the answer to the Internet bandwidth problem, but others are skeptical. ATM creates a fixed channel, or route, between two points whenever data transfer begins. This differs from TCP/IP, in which messages are divided into packets and each packet can take a different route from source to destination. This difference makes it easier to track and bill data usage across an ATM network, but it makes it less adaptable to sudden surges in network traffic.
When purchasing ATM service, you generally have a choice of four different types of service:

ATM_OAM_Ping
The ATM OAM Ping feature sends an ATM Operation, Administration and Maintenance (OAM) packet to confirm the connectivity of a specific permanent virtual circuit (PVC). The status of the PVC is displayed when a response to the OAM packet is received. The ATM OAM Ping feature allows the network administrator to verify PVC integrity and facilitates ATM network troubleshooting. [Source:  Cisco Systems]

Atom
(1) When written as AToM, it is short for  Any Transport over MPLS, a technology developed by Cisco for transporting Layer 2 packets over an IP/MPLS backbone. The technology is designed to let  ISPs combine multiple disparate data networks -- such as Ethernet, ATM, Frame Relay, and Serial/PPP networks -- onto a single MPLS-based backbone to save operational costs.  AToM is sometimes called Layer 2 MPLS.  (2) Atom is the name of an XML-based Web content and metadata syndication format, and an application-level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources belonging to periodically updated Web sites. All Atom feeds must be well-formed XML documents, and are identified with the application/atom+xml media type. [Source:  AtomEnabled]

atomic_operation
An operation during which a processor can simultaneously read a location and write it in the same bus operation. This prevents any other processor or I/O device from writing or reading memory until the operation is complete.
Atomic implies indivisibility and irreducibility, so an atomic operation must be performed entirely or not performed at all.

ATRN
Short for On-Demand Mail Relay, an e-mail service that allows a user to request e-mail from any internet connection by using a dynamic IP address as opposed to a static IP address. With OMDR, the user connects to an ISP that supports OMDR, authenticates and then requests e-mail. When the user requests e-mail, the roles of client and server reverse and normal SMTP operations proceed.  ODMR also is called ATRN, short for Authenticated Turn.

ATSC
Short for Advanced Television Systems Committee, it is an international, non-profit organization developing voluntary standards for digital television. The ATSC member organizations represent the broadcast, broadcast equipment, motion picture, consumer electronics, computer, cable, satellite, and semiconductor industries.

attachment
A file attached to an e-mail message. Many e-mail systems only support sending text files as e-mail. If the attachment is a binary file or formatted text file (such as an MS-Word document), it must be encoded before it is sent and decoded once it is received. There are a number of encoding schemes, the two most prevalent being Uuencode and MIME.  

attenuation
Reduction of signal strength during transmission. Attenuation is the opposite of amplification, and is normal when a signal is sent from one point to another. If the signal attenuates too much, it becomes unintelligible, which is why most networks require repeaters at regular intervals. Attenuation is measured in decibels.


attenuation_crosstalk_ratio
Also known as headroom, attenuation crosstalk ratio (ACR) is the difference between attenuation and crosstalk at a given frequency along a cable. Measured in decibels, ACR is a calculation used in networking transmission to assure that a signal transmitted across a twisted-pair cable is stronger at the receiving end than any interference signals imposed on that same pair by crosstalk from adjacent pairs.

attitude_control
In satellite communications the attitude control is the term used to describe the orientation of the satellite in relationship to the earth and the sun.

attwaction
Slang term used to describe an attraction between two  Twitterers (people who send tweets on the Twitter service). See also "Twitter Dictionary: A guide to help you understand Twitter chatter and slang" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia.

ATX
The modern-day shape and layout of PC motherboards. It improves on the previous standard, the Baby AT form factor, by rotating the orientation of the board 90 degrees. This allows for a more efficient design, with disk drive cable connectors nearer to the drive bays and the CPU closer to the power supply and cooling fan. Also see  From AT to BTX: Motherboard Form Factors  in Webopedia's "Did You Know...?" section.

AUC
Short for Authentication Center and also abbreviated as AC, it is a device located in the HLR (Home Location Register) of a GSM system. The AUC manages the authentication and encryption of information that is associated with individual subscribers by authenticating each SIM card that tries to connect to the GSM network.

audacity
Audacity is the name of a popular open source multilingual audio editor and recorder software that is used to record and edit  sounds. It is free and works on Windows, Mac OS X, GNU/Linux and other operating  systems.
Audacity can be used to perform a number of audio editing and recording tasks  such as making ringtones, mixing stero tracks, transferring tapes and records to  computer or CD, splitting recordings into separate tracks and more. The  Audacity Wiki provides indepth tutorials on how to do these types of tasks  in Audacity. Vendors can also freely bundle Audacity with their products or sell  or distribute copies of Audacity under the GNU General Public License (GPL).   The latest release of Audacity (March 2011) is 1.3.12 (Beta) with the main  release being Audacity 1.2.6.

audio_frequency
Abbreviated as AF, audio frequency represent the range of signals that are audible to the human ear. The range of audio frequencies is usually considered to be in the region between 20 and 20,000 hertz.

audio_sampling_rate
The audio sampling rate is number of samples per second that are used to digitize a particular sound. Most digital video (DV) cameras can record at several audio sampling rates, where higher rates produce better results.

AUDIO_TS
A AUDIO_TS is a UDF file name used for audio directory on a DVD disc volume.Compare with VIDEO_TS.

audit_trail
A record showing who has accessed a computer system and what operations he or she has performed during a given period of time. Audit trails are useful both for maintaining security and for recovering lost transactions. Most accounting systems and database management systems include an audit trail component. In addition, there are separate audit trail software products that enable network administrators to monitor use of network resources.


Augmented_Reality
Abbreviated as AR, Augmented Reality is a type of virtual reality that aims to duplicate the world's environment in a computer. An augmented reality system generates a composite view for the user that is the combination of the real scene viewed by the user and a virtual scene generated by the computer that augments the scene with additional information. The virtual scene generated by the computer is designed to enhance the user's sensory perception of the virtual world they are seeing or interacting with. The goal of Augmented Reality is to create a system in which the user cannot tell the difference between the real world and the virtual augmentation of it. Today Augmented Reality is used in entertainment, military training, engineering design, robotics, manufacturing and other industries.


AUI
Short for Attachment Unit Interface, the portion of the Ethernet standard that specifies how a cable is to be connected to an Ethernet card. AUI specifies a coaxial cable connected to a transceiver that plugs into a 15-pin socket on the network interface card (NIC). 

AUP
(1) Short for acceptable use policy. Also known as TOS (Terms of Service). A contract specifying what a subscriber can and cannot do while using an ISP's service. Contains things like liability disclaimers, lists of actions or behavior that will result in the termination of a customers account, definition of terms such as "unlimited use," billing policies, SPAM clauses, etc.    (2) Short for Agile Unified Process, a simplified version of the Rational Unified Process (RUP). It describes a simple, easy to understand approach to developing business application software using agile techniques and concepts yet still remaining true to the RUP.

AuroraUX
An open source operating system based on the OpenSolaris source base. AuroraUX is intended to be a core operating system for scientific computing that uses the U.S. Department of Defense-developed Ada programming language.

authentication
The process of identifying an individual, usually based on a username and password. In security systems, authentication is distinct from authorization , which is the process of giving individuals access to system objects based on their identity. Authentication merely ensures that the individual is who he or she claims to be, but says nothing about the access rights of the individual.


authenticity
In social media, authenticity is the word used to describe "real" people behind blog posts and other social profiles that can develop an authentic voice with readers and followers.

author
A Google search operator that allows a user to restrict the Google search results (SERP) to include results to show pages only about the author you specify. This operator can also be used to restrict Google Groups search results to include newsgroup articles by the author you specify.
The author name can be a full name, partial name or email address. For example, author: stephen king restricts Google search results to pages about the famous author, Stephen King.  You may also specify a word in the query to return results of articles written by the author using that phrase. For example, castle rock author: Stephen King will return search results that contain the word “castle rock” written by Stephen King.

authoring_tool
Also known as authorware, a program that helps you write hypertext or multimedia applications. Authoring tools usually enable you to create a final application merely by linking together objects, such as a paragraph of text, an illustration, or a song. By defining the objects' relationships to each other, and by sequencing them in an appropriate order, authors (those who use authoring tools) can produce attractive and useful graphics applications. Most authoring systems also support a scripting language for more sophisticated applications.
The distinction between authoring tools and programming tools is not clear-cut. Typically, though, authoring tools require less technical knowledge to master and are used exclusively for applications that present a mixture of textual, graphical, and audio data.
 

Authorized_Education_Reseller
Abbreviated as AER, Authorized Education Reseller is a term used by Microsoft to describe a software reseller that has been authorized by Microsoft to sell Academic Edition software licenses to eligible education customers.
See license and software licensing. See also "Is Software Ownership the Same as Licensing?" in the Did You Know...? section of Webopedia.


auto_classification
A feature found in some content management systems (CMS) that will scan the contents of a document and automatically assign categories and keywords based on the document contents.

auto_correct_fail
Autocorrect Follies

auto_dialer
A software program that can be used to automatically call thousands of numbers from a phone list or database. An auto dialer can usually be configured to leave messages for people on answering machines, receive touchtone or recorded responses, or simply dial the telephone numbers for an operator or agent. Some systems that perform a call transfer to an operator when a call is answered by a person is called a predictive dialer. Auto dialers are widely used for  customer support in call centers and telemarketing.

auto_fill
A feature found in software and applications, that lets you enter a series of numbers or characters in a specified range, and have the software complete the entry you started typing. In Microsoft Excel, for example, you can use a preset function to automatically fill a cell with data. Auto fill may also be spelled as autofill or auto-fill.

auto_ID
Short for automatic identification, Auto ID is the term used to describe the process of automatic data collection and identification that occurs in real-time. Bar code technology is considered to be a type of Auto ID.

auto_partitioning
An Ethernet technology that isolates malfunctioning ports, devices and/or network lines from the rest of the network, stopping the transmission of data from flowing through the faulty network element. Auto partitioning is one method networks use to ensure that no data is lost during transmission.  When a network detects a malfunction, such as collisions along the network, a disconnected port, a jamming signal or even the wrong type of or degraded wiring, the faulty element is automatically partitioned (i.e., further data is stopped from traveling the suspicious path) so that the integrity of the entire network is not compromised.

Auto_Negotiation
Auto-Negotiation is a technology that was introduced by National Semiconductor to the IEEE 802.3u 100BASE-T working group in the Spring of 1994 as a result of the need for a mechanism to accommodate multi-speed network devices.  It's a mechanism that takes control of the cable when a connection is established to a network device. Auto-Negotiation detects the various modes that exist in the device on the other end of the wire and advertises it own abilities to automatically configure the highest performance mode of interoperation. As a standard technology, this allows simple, automatic connection of devices that support a variety of modes from a variety of manufacturers. [Source:  An Introduction to Auto-Negotiation]
Auto-Negotiation was previously called NWay. The term is often seen written as either Auto-Negotiation or as one word, autonegotiation.

auto_redial
A feature supported by many modems that allows the modem to continue redialing a number until it makes a connection. This is a useful feature if you subscribe to an online service that is frequently busy. 

AutoCorrect
A feature in many applications, including word processing programs, spreadsheets and search engines that will automatically detect and correct typos, misspelled words, and incorrect capitalization. Usually a drop down box with "suggestions" will appear when you make a typo while entering characters in the cell or form field.

autodiscovery
(1) Term used to describe a set of tools that collects data on a network and records any changes made to the network assets. This could be changes made to memory, software versions, storage, new or deleted files and so on.  (2) In RSS terminology, autodiscovery is the process used by spiders to look for RSS content. When audodiscovery is enabled for your RSS feed, browsers and aggregators can then automatically detect the RSS feed, making it easier for users to subscribe to it.

Automated_Biometric_Identification_System
ABIS, the Automated Biometric Identification System (IDENT) is a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) managed system that is used for the storing and processing of biometric and biographic information for DHS national security, law enforcement, immigration, intelligence, and other DHS functions.

automated_cartography
The process of producing maps with the aid of computer driven devices such as plotters and graphical displays.

Automated_Cartridge_System
Abbreviated as ACS, Automated Cartridge System is a storage and retrieval system, often used for library management. The ACS provides cartridge storage cells, transports, and a robotic mechanism to move cartridges between the cells.

Automated_Clearing_House_Network
Abbreviated as ACH, it is a network of batch processing systems for clearing electronic payments for participating financial agencies in the United States. Transactions received by a financial agency are stored and processed in batches, rather than in single transactions by the ACH network. The ACH network is governed by The Electronic Payments Association (NACHA). This industry association serves serves as both an industry trade association and the administrator of the Automated Clearing House (ACH) Network.

Automated_Litigation_Support
Abbreviated as ALS, Automated Litigation Support is a broad term used to describe the use of different software and processes for the collection and presentation of documentary evidence. The category of ALS products include word processors, multimedia presentation systems, software used for text search and retrieval, databases and more. Automated litigation support solutions, when compared to manual solutions, assist litigators in reducing errors, time and expenses when preparing cases. See also e-discovery.

automated_merchandising
See under predictive merchandising.

automatic_exposure_mode
Automatic exposure mode (also called automatic exposure and abbreviated as AE) is a standard feature on digital cameras that will automatically determine the correct exposure for pictures without any user input other than to select the AE option before taking a picture.
In automatic mode the cameras will make all the decisions for you, including the aperture setting, the shutter speed, white balance and ISO. Nearly all digital cameras have an automatic exposure mode.
Other digital camera settings and shooting modes include:

automatic_fall_over
Automatic fall-over is a term associated with content management and contingency planning for system disaster and recovery. It is an automated process where in case of a system or server failure, the control of data and applications will "automatically fall over" to a secondary system or server. Automatic fall over procedures results in less costly downtime while eliminating the possibility of inducing system failure during recovery, and usually require very little user input.

Automatic_Fan_Detection
In computer BIOS settings for Intel desktop boards, Automatic Fan Detection is a fan control option for detecting fans added to the motherboard. Users can select the following settings;  Next Boot: Detect fans added to the motherboard upon next boot only. Disabled: Will not detect fans added to the motherboard, new fans may perform erratically. Always: Detect fans added to the motherboard (may cause a slight delay and increased noise during startup).  See "BIOS Beep Codes" in the Quick Reference section of Webopedia. Also see "The System Boot Process Explained" in Webopedia's Did You Know...? section.

automatic_gain_control
Abbreviated as AGC, automatic gain control is a circuit found on some electronic devices that automatically controls the gain of a signal. Using AGC means that weaker signals receive more gain and stronger signals receive less gain or none at all.

automatic_number_identification
Short for automatic number identification, a service that provides the telephone number of an incoming call. ANI is used for a variety of functions -- by receiving the incoming telephone number, telephone companies can direct a call to the proper long distance carrier's equipment; it can help identify the caller's address to speed response time to 911 calls; and it can route an 800 call to the nearest vendor. ISDN, the standards for transmissions on telephone lines, supports ANI.   

automatic_online_backup
In storage technology, online backup means to back up data from your hard drive to a remote server or computer using a network connection. An automatic online backup is a feature offered by some online backup service providers that lets users select any file to have the service automatically back that data up on a regular basis without the user having to make any further action.
Top 5 Backup Related Questions
1. What is cloud backup? 2. What is online backup? 3. What is remote backup? 4. What is online data storage? 5. What is enterprise cloud backup?

automatic_test_equipment
Abbreviated as ATE, in the electronic manufacturing industry, automatic test equipment refers to any automated device that can be used to test printed circuit boards, integrated circuits, and electronic components.

autonomic_computing
(â´´t&-nom´ik k&m-pū´t-ing) (n.) A type of computing model in which the system is self-healing, self-configured, self-protected and self-managed. Designed to mimic the human body's nervous system-in that the autonomic nervous system acts and reacts to stimuli independent of the individual's conscious input-an autonomic computing environment functions with a high level of artificial intelligence while remaining invisible to the users. Just as the human body acts and responds without the individual controlling functions (e.g., internal temperature rises and falls, breathing rate fluctuates, glands secrete hormones in response to stimulus), the autonomic computing environment operates organically in response to the input it collects.  A leader in autonomic computing design, IBM has set forth eight conditions that define an autonomic system:  The system must know itself in terms of what resources it has access to, what its capabilities and limitations are and how and why it is connected to other systems. The system must be able to automatically configure and reconfigure itself depending on the changing computing environment. The system must be able to optimize its performance to ensure the most efficient computing process. The system must be able to work around encountered problems by either repairing itself or routing functions away from the trouble. The system must detect, identify and protect itself against various types of attacks to maintain overall system security and integrity. The system must be able to adapt to its environment as it changes, interacting with neighboring systems and establishing communication protocols. The system must rely on open standards and cannot exist in a proprietary environment. The system must anticipate the demand on its resources while keeping transparent to users. 

autoresponder
An e-mail utility that automatically replies to an e-mail message with a prewritten response when that e-mail comes into a specific e-mail or Internet address.  Autoresponders are used by individuals and also by Web sites that need to respond to user comments automatically. For example, an individual may use an autoresponder feature of e-mail to inform the sender that he has gone on vacation and will not be replying personally to e-mails until he returns to the office; an enterprise may use an autoresponder in response to a newsletter subscription request to verify the opt-in or subscription cancellation or to indicate to the sender that a user comment was received. Autorepsonders are also used by enterprises to indicate that an online purchase was processed and will typically include an order confirmation number in the e-mail that is automatically generated and sent to the purchaser.

autosave
A feature supported by many applications in which the program automatically saves data files at predetermined intervals. This is an important feature because it reduces the amount of work you would lose if your system crashed. Usually, you can specify how often you want the application to save data.  

autosizing
Refers to a monitor's ability to automatically adjust the raster (the rectangular area being displayed) depending on the resolution of signals being received. For each different resolution (e.g., VGA, SVGA, etc.) the monitor needs to readjust the raster so that it fits within the physical dimensions of the display screen and maintains the aspect ratio of the image.  

autotracing
The process of converting a bit-mapped image (or raster image) into a vector image. In a bit-mapped image, each object is represented by a pattern of dots, while in a vector image every object is defined geometrically.  Most autotracing packages read files in a variety of bit-mapped formats (PCX and TIFF are the most common) and produce a file in a vector format such as Encapsulated PostScript (EPS  ). The conversion techniques used, and the accuracy of the conversion process, differ from one package to another.  Autotracing is particularly useful for manipulating images produced by an optical scanner. Scanners produce bit-mapped images that cannot be manipulated by sophisticated tools until they have been converted into a vector format through autotracing.   

AUX_
Stands for Auxiliary port, the logical name in DOS systems for the standard communications port. This is usually the same as COM1.  

AV_Killer
Short for antivirus Killer, a malicious tool used to disable a user's antivirus program to help elude detection. AV killers may also attempt to disable firewalls.

avahi
avahi is a service auto-discovery that is installed by default on Debian and Ubuntu systems. On a Linux box avahi can be used for a number of things, including networked music sharing. Avahi runs mDNS plus DNS-SD: that is, multicast DNS plus DNS service discovery. Multicast DNS means that each equipped host stores its own DNS records. DNS-SD uses the same technology, but in addition to regular DNS information, hosts also publish service instance information: they announce what services they provide and how to contact those services.   See also  Using Zeroconf on Linux on  PracticallyNetworked.com.

availability
In computer systems and networking, availability is a general term that is used to describe the amount of time over a one-year period that the system resources is available in the wake of component failures in the system. See also High Availability (HA).

avatar
(1) A virtual representation of the player in a game. (2) A common name for the superuser account on UNIX systems. The other common name is root.

average_page_depth
In Google Analytics, it is the average number of pages on a site that visitors view during a single session.

average_page_depth_analytics
In Web analytics, including Google Analytics, average page depth (or depth of visit)is the measurement of the number of pages on your Web site that a visitor views during a single browser session. In your analytics report you would typically see a breakdown of the number of visits with 1-page view, 2-page views and so on.
See also Web analytics and basic metrics.

Average_Revenue_Per_User
Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is a financial performance benchmark in the telecom industry that measures the average monthly revenue generated per customer. Originally used by telephone carriers, the term has been adapted to other telecom industries and is now used by carriers providing services such as Internet connection, cable services, cellphone, pager, VoIP services and so on.

average_time_on_site
In Web analytics, including Google Analytics, average time on site is a type of visitor report that provides data on the amount of time (in minutes or seconds) visitors have spent on your website. When viewing the time on site report in your Web analytics program it is important to remember that the results can be misleading because in some cases the visitor may have been interacting with your pages and site content or they could have left the browser window open and were not actually viewing your page. 
See also Web analytics and basic metrics.

AVI
Short for Audio Video Interleave, the file format for Microsoft's Video for Windows standard. See under Video for Windows. 

Avivo_HD
A trademark of ATI Technologies, Avivo HD was first introduced with the ATI Radeon HD 2000 series of GPUs. It is designed for high-end, high definition video playback in home theater systems. Avivo HD offers full-spec HD disc playback with hardware-based Unified Video Decoding (UVD), built-in HDMI with multi-channel HD surround audio, and support for high-quality connectivity with multiple HDTVs and displays.

awk
An interpreted programming language that is included in most versions of UNIX. The name is derived from the initials of its creators -- Alfred Aho, Peter Weinberger, and Brian Kernighan -- who developed the language in 1977 and 1978. The language is particularly designed for filtering and manipulating textual data. In this respect, it is similar to Perl, though Perl is more powerful.  There are many variants of awk, including gawk, which is the GNU version. 

aws-marketplace
An online store for Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing customers to find, compare and utilize AWS software and technical services. The AWS Marketplace was launched in 2012 to accommodate and foster the growth of AWS services from third-party providers that have built their own solutions on top of the Amazon Web Services platform.  Amazon's AWS Marketplace features a wide variety of both commercial and free software solutions and services, particularly software infrastructure tools such as databases and application servers, developer tools and business applications. AWS Marketplace commercial vendors include IBM, Microsoft, SAP, 10gen, CA, Couchbase, Canonical and more, and open-source offerings from the likes of Nginx, Drupal, Wordpress, Zend and MediaWiki are also available.

Axerra_Networks
Axerra Networks is the corporate name of a provider of circuit emulation and service emulation solutions over packet access networks. Axerra Networks uses a technology called "Pseudowire" to provide a full-service alternative to TDM access.  Pseudowires convert any access network including Carrier Ethernet, broadband wireless including WiMAX, cable HFC, xDSL, and xPON into a multiservice alternative to TDM access.  The company, Axerra Networks, was established in November 2000.

Axion
An open source RDBMS that supports SQL and JDBC written in and for the Java programming language. It is under a commercial-friendly (BSD) license. Axion canm be used in commercial products containing millions of rows and gigabytes of data and offers primarily a write-once, in-process database. Axion is being actively developed has not yet had a formal 1.0 release.

AZERTY_keyboard

The French version of the standard QWERTY keyboard. AZERTY keyboards differ from the QWERTY keyboard in that the Q and W keys have been interchanged with the A and Z keys. Another difference between QWERTY and AZERTY keyboard is that the  M key on an AZERTY is to the left of the L key.
See also QWERTY keyboard.

android_honeycomb
Honeycomb is the dessert-themed Android codename for the version 3.0 update of the open source Android mobile operating system. Honeycomb made its debut in February 2011 as a tablet-centric update that delivered a new interface optimized for devices with larger screen sizes (particularly tablets), video chat support based on Google Talk protocols, a new System Bar for global status and notifications and an Action Bar for application control, tabbed Web browsing, optimized soft keyboard and a new email interface.
Honeycomb followed several earlier updates for Android – Cupcake (v1.5), Donut (v1.6), Eclair (v2.0), FroYo (v2.2) and Gingerbread  (v2.3) – and is expected to be followed by the upcoming Ice Cream Sandwich (v4.0) update currently in development.
See also Android platform, Android SDK and Android codenames.

anything-as-a-service_xaas
Anything-as-a-service, or XaaS, refers to the growing diversity of services available over the Internet via cloud computing as opposed to being provided locally, or on premises. Also known as everything-as-a-service, anything-as-a-service reflects the vast potential for on-demand cloud services and is already being heavily marketed and promoted by companies like VMware and HP.  
Anything-as-a-service derives the "X" in its XaaS acronym as a result of being a catch-all term for everything from software-as-a-service (SaaS) to storage-as-a-service, desktop-as-a-service (DaaS), disaster recovery-as-a-service (DRaaS), network-as-a-service (NaaS), infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) and platform-as-a-service (PaaS), and even emerging services such as marketing-as-a-service and healthcare-as-a-service.

